Glioma tumor stem - like cells promote tumor angiogenesis and vasculogenesis via vascular endothelial growth factor and stromal - derived factor 1 . Cancer stem cells ( CSC ) are predicted to be critical drivers of tumor progression due to their self - renewal capacity and limitless proliferative potential . An emerging area of research suggests that CSC may also support tumor progression by promoting tumor angiogenesis . To investigate how CSC contribute to tumor vascular development , we used an approach comparing tumor xenografts of the C6 glioma cell line containing either a low or a high fraction of CSC . Compared with CSC - low tumors , CSC - high tumors exhibited increased microvessel density and blood perfusion and induced increased mobilization and tumor recruitment of bone marrow - derived endothelial progenitor cells ( EPC ) . CSC - high C6 cell cultures also induced higher levels of endothelial cell proliferation and tubule organization in vitro compared with CSC - low cultures . CSC - high cultures and tumors expressed increased levels of the proangiogenic factors vascular endothelial growth factor and stromal - derived factor 1 , and when signaling by either factor was blocked , all aspects of angiogenesis observed in CSC - high cultures and tumors , including microvessel density , perfusion , EPC mobilization / recruitment , and stimulation of endothelial cell activity , were reduced to levels comparable with those observed in CSC - low cultures / tumors . These results suggest that CSC contribute to tumor angiogenesis by promoting both local endothelial cell activity and systemic angiogenic processes involving bone marrow - derived EPC in a vascular endothelial growth factor - dependent and stromal - derived factor 1 - dependent manner . Islet endothelial activation and oxidative stress gene expression is reduced by IL - 1Ra treatment in the type 2 diabetic GK rat . BACKGROUND : Inflammation followed by fibrosis is a component of islet dysfunction in both rodent and human type 2 diabetes . Because islet inflammation may originate from endothelial cells , we assessed the expression of selected genes involved in endothelial cell activation in islets from a spontaneous model of type 2 diabetes , the Goto - Kakizaki ( GK ) rat . We also examined islet endotheliuml / oxidative stress ( OS ) / inflammation - related gene expression , islet vascularization and fibrosis after treatment with the interleukin - 1 ( IL - 1 ) receptor antagonist ( IL - 1Ra ) . METHODOLOGY / PRINCIPAL FINDINGS : Gene expression was analyzed by quantitative RT - PCR on islets isolated from 10 - week - old diabetic GK and control Wistar rats . Furthermore , GK rats were treated s . c twice daily with IL - 1Ra ( Kineret , Amgen , 100 mg / kg / day ) or saline , from 4 weeks of age onwards ( onset of diabetes ) . Four weeks later , islet gene analysis and pancreas immunochemistry were performed . Thirty - two genes were selected encoding molecules involved in endothelial cell activation , particularly fibrinolysis , vascular tone , OS , angiogenesis and also inflammation . All genes except those encoding angiotensinogen and epoxide hydrolase ( that were decreased ) , and 12 - lipoxygenase and vascular endothelial growth factor ( that showed no change ) , were significantly up - regulated in GK islets . After IL - 1Ra treatment of GK rats in vivo , most selected genes implied in endothelium / OS / immune cells / fibrosis were significantly down - regulated . IL - 1Ra also improved islet vascularization , reduced fibrosis and ameliorated glycemia . CONCLUSIONS / SIGNIFICANCE : GK rat islets have increased mRNA expression of markers of early islet endothelial cell activation , possibly triggered by several metabolic factors , and also some defense mechanisms . The beneficial effect of IL - 1Ra on most islet endothelial / OS / immune cells / fibrosis parameters analyzed highlights a major endothelial - related role for IL - 1 in GK islet alterations . Thus , metabolically - altered islet endothelium might affect the beta - cell microenvironment and contribute to progressive type 2 diabetic beta - cell dysfunction in GK rats . Counteracting islet endothelial cell inflammation might be one way to ameliorate / prevent beta - cell dysfunction in type 2 diabetes . Cognitive function and number of teeth in a community - dwelling elderly population without dementia . Although the number of sound or decayed teeth has been reported to be associated with cognitive function in elderly populations with dementia , little is known about this association in elderly populations without dementia . We evaluated this relationship , with adjustment for confounding factors , in Japanese populations of 60 - year - old ( n = 270 ; 120 males and 150 females ) and 65 - year - old ( n = 123 ; 57 males and 66 females ) individuals residing in Fukuoka Prefecture of Japan . Dental examinations were performed in all subjects , along with the Mini - mental state examination ( MMSE ) for assessing cognitive function . Among the total of 393 subjects , the mean MMSE score was 27 . 9 + / - 1 . 9 , and 391 subjects scored 24 or higher . The mean numbers of sound and decayed teeth were 12 . 0 + / - 6 . 3 and 0 . 5 + / - 1 . 2 , respectively . Associations were found between the numbers of sound and decayed teeth and MMSE in total subjects and males , but not in females , by multiple regression analysis adjusted for gender , age , level of education , marital status , smoking , alcohol drinking , working status , systolic blood pressure and blood glucose . An association was also found between MMSE and the number of sound teeth in a logistic regression analysis . In conclusion , associations were found between normal - range cognitive function and the numbers of sound and decayed teeth , after adjustment for various confounding factors , in an elderly Japanese population . Magnesium for treatment of asthma in children . QUESTION : Magnesium is considered adjuvant therapy for moderate to severe asthma exacerbations in adults , but can it be used to treat children ? ANSWER : Magnesium seems to be beneficial in the treatment of moderate to severe asthma in children . It is a safe drug to administer , but there have been minor side effects reported , such as epigastric or facial warmth , flushing , pain and numbness at the infusion site , dry mouth , malaise , and hypotension . Owing to its bronchodilating and anti - inflammatory effects , magnesium is an encouraging adjuvant therapy for pediatric patients who do not respond to conventional treatment in acute severe exacerbations . Future studies should focus on establishing the optimal dosage for maximal benefits and the best route of administration . Magnesium should also be considered as a prophylactic treatment . AVE8062 : a new combretastatin derivative vascular disrupting agent . Angiogenesis has an essential role in promoting and supporting tumor growth and it is an important therapeutic target . The tumor vascular network is the result of pro - angiogenic and inhibitory factors as well as of the interaction between endothelial cells and extracellular matrix . Different antiangiogenic therapeutics have been developed to improve tumor control through vascular - targeting agents ( VTA ) . VTAs can be divided into two groups : antiangiogenic agents and vascular - disrupting agents ( VDAs ) . VTAs inhibit specific factors required to induce and direct the angiogenic process , with major activity against small tumor masses and at the tumor periphery , encompassing monoclonal antibodies and small molecules inhibitors of the tyrosine kinase domain of the VEGF receptor . VDAs specifically target and destroy well - established tumor vessels with ischemia and destruction of large masses with central hemorrhagic necrosis and survival of a thin peripheral tumor layer . VDAs can be divided into biologics , such as ligand - based , and small - molecule agents ; this second group includes small - molecule VDAs like flavonoids , such as 5 , 6 - dimethylxanthenone - 4 - acetic acid ( DMXAA ) , and microtubule - destabilizing agents . In this review we will discuss the mechanism of action , as well as the preclinical and clinical results , of one of the most promising antitubulin agents : the combretastatin A4 - phosphate derivative , AVE8062A . Targeting TNF for Treatment of Cancer and Autoimmunity . Tumor necrosis factor - alpha ( TNF - alpha ) was first isolated two decades ago as a macrophageproduced protein that can effectively kill tumor cells . TNF - alpha is also an essential component of the immune system and is required for hematopoiesis , for protection from bacterial infection and for immune cell - mediated cytotoxicity . Extensive research , however , has revealed that TNF - alpha is one of the major players in tumor initiation , proliferation , invasion , angiogenesis and metastasis . The proinflammatory activities link TNF - alpha with a wide variety of autoimmune diseases , including psoriasis , inflammatory bowel disease , rheumatoid arthritis , systemic sclerosis , systemic lupus erythematosus , multiple sclerosis , diabetes and ankylosing spondylitis . Systemic inhibitors of TNF such as etanercept ( Enbrel ) ( a soluble TNF receptor ) and infliximab ( Remicade ) and adalimumab ( Humira ) ( anti - TNF antibodies ) have been approved for the treatment inflammatory bowel disease , psoriasis and rheumatoid arthritis . These drugs , however , exhibit severe side effects and are expensive . Hence orally active blockers of TNF - alpha that are safe , efficacious and inexpensive are urgently needed . Numerous products from fruits , vegetable and traditional medicinal plants have been described which can suppress TNF expression and TNF signaling but their clinical potential is yet uncertain . [ Prognostic significance of cellular vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) expression in the course of chronic myeloid leukaemia ] INTRODUCTION : Increased angiogenesis in bone marrow is one of the characteristics of chronic myeloid leukaemia ( CML ) , a clonal myeloproliferative disorder that expresses a chimeric bcr / abl protein . Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) is one of the most potent and a specific regulator of angiogenesis which principally targets endothelial cells and regulates several of their functions , including mitogenesis , permeability and migration . The impact of elevated VEGF expression on the course of chronic myeloid leukaemia is unknown . OBJECTIVE : The aim of this study was the follow - up of VEGF expression during the course of CML . METHODS : We studied VEGF expression of 85 CML patients ( median age 50 years , range 16 - 75 years ) . At the commencement of the study , 29 patients were in chronic phase ( CP ) , 25 in an accelerated phase ( AP ) , and 31 in the blast crisis ( BC ) . The temporal expression ( percentage positivity per 1000 analysed cells ) VEGF proteins over the course of CML were studied using the immunohistochemical technique utilizing relevant monoclonal antibodies . It was correlated with the laboratory ( Hb , WBC and platelet counts , and the percentage of blasts ) and clinical parameters ( organomegaly , duration of CP , AP , and BC ) of disease progression . RESULTS : The expression ofVEGF protein was most pronounced in AP ( ANOVA , p = 0 . 033 ) . The level of VEGF expression correlated inversely with the degree of splenomegaly ( Pearson , r = - 0 . 400 , p = 0 . 011 ) . High expression of VEGF correlated with a shorter overall survival ( log rank , p = 0 . 042 ) . CONCLUSION : Immunohistochemically confirmed significance of the expression of VEGF in dependence of the CML stage could be of clinical importance in deciding on the timing therapy . These data suggest that VEGF plays a role in the biology of CML and that VEGF inhibitors should be investigated in CML . Pbx1 is a downstream target of Evi - 1 in hematopoietic stem / progenitors and leukemic cells . Ecotropic viral integration site - 1 ( Evi - 1 ) is a nuclear transcription factor , which is essential for the proliferation / maintenance of hematopoietic stem cells ( HSCs ) . Aberrant expression of Evi - 1 has been frequently found in myeloid leukemia , and is associated with a poor patient survival . Recently , we reported candidate target genes of Evi - 1 shared in HSCs and leukemic cells using gene expression profiling analysis . In this study , we identified Pbx1 , a proto - oncogene in hematopoietic malignancy , as a target gene of Evi - 1 . Overexpression of Evi - 1 increased Pbx1 expression in hematopoietic stem / progenitor cells . An analysis of the Pbx1 promoter region revealed that Evi - 1 upregulates Pbx1 transcription . Furthermore , reduction of Pbx1 levels through RNAi - mediated knockdown significantly inhibited Evi - 1 - induced transformation . In contrast , knockdown of Pbx1 did not impair bone marrow transformation by E2A / HLF or AML1 / ETO , suggesting that Pbx1 is specifically required for the maintenance of bone marrow transformation mediated by Evi - 1 . These results indicate that Pbx1 is a target gene of Evi - 1 involved in Evi - 1 - mediated leukemogenesis . Inducible nitric oxide synthase modulates angiogenesis in ischemic hindlimb of rat . BACKGROUND : Angiogenesis plays an important role in maintaining adequate oxygen delivery , and nitric oxide ( NO ) is a potential regulator of angiogenesis . NO is synthesized through three isoforms of NO synthase ( NOS ) . It is hypothesized that the NO derived from inducible NOS ( iNOS ) may promote survival of ischemic tissue through angiogenesis . To test this hypothesis , we investigated the effect of iNOS deficiency ( by L - NIL ) on angiogenesis in a hindlimb ischemia model . METHODS : Thirty - two male wistar rats randomly divided into four groups . In groups 1 & 2 , hindlimb ischemia was induced by ligation of femoral artery and they received L - NIL and saline respectively . The animals in groups 3 and 4 also received L - NIL and saline respectively without surgical procedure . After 21 days , the serum concentration of nitrite , capillary density and expression of HIF1alpha were determined . RESULTS : Serum nitrite levels were significantly lower in L - NIL groups ( p < 0 . 05 ) . The capillary density in group 1 ( ischemia + L - NIL ) was significantly different from group 2 ( ischemia + saline ) ; group 1 : 360 . 33 + / - 77 . 02 , group 2 : 549 + / - 81 . 85 / mm2 , p < 0 . 05 ) . In addition , expression of HIF1alpha was significantly increased in ischemic groups ( p < 0 . 05 ) . CONCLUSION : Selective inhibition of iNOS by L - NIL inhibits angiogenesis in a hindlimb ischemic rat model . In addition , ischemia induces expression of HIF1alpha in hypoxic tissue . Tumor Angiogenesis : Initiation and Targeting - Therapeutic Targeting of an FGF - Binding Protein , an Angiogenic Switch Molecule , and Indicator of Early Stages of Gastrointestinal Adenocarcinomas - . Tumor angiogenesis has been related to the initiation as well as progression toward more aggressive behavior of human tumors . In particular , the activity of angiogenic factors is crucial for tumor progression . We previously characterized a secreted fibroblast growth factor - binding protein ( FGF - BP ) as a chaperone molecule , which binds to various FGFs , enhances FGF - mediated biochemical and biologic events and importantly is a crucial rate - limiting factor for tumor - dependent angiogenesis . We generated monoclonal antibodies that target FGF - BP protein and used them as a tool to evaluate frequency and pattern of FGF - BP expression during the malignant progression of pancreas and colorectal carcinoma in archival tissue samples . We found that FGF - BP is dramatically upregulated during the initiation of colorectal and pancreatic adenocarcinoma . Crucial genetic events underlying the initiation and progression of colorectal and pancreatic adenocarcinoma with a particular focus on the modulation of angiogenesis and antiangiogenic therapies are discussed . We propose that the upregulation of the secreted FGF - BP protein during early phases of pancreas and colon cancer could make this protein a possible serum marker indicating the presence of high - risk premalignant lesions . Furthermore , the biological activity of FGF - BP is neutralized by monoclonal antibodies suggesting the potential for antibody - based therapeutic targeting . Range of motion limitation after rotator cuff repair . HYPOTHESIS : This study was conducted to identify preoperative factors correlating with limited motion after rotator cuff repair ( RCR ) and to evaluate the affect of loss of motion on outcome . We hypothesized that patients with preoperative ROM loss , diabetes , and workman ' s compensation claims would exhibit postoperative ROM loss at 3 months . MATERIAL AND METHODS : Preoperative and postoperative evaluations , including outcomes assessment and physical examination parameters , were reviewed for 345 patients who underwent RCR . Correlations between demographic , physical examination , and surgical variables and postoperative limitation of motion and need for capsular release were determined . RESULTS : At 3 - month follow - up , mean active forward elevation ( AFE ) , active external rotation ( AER ) , and passive internal rotation ( PIR ) were 90 % , 78 % , and 80 % of the contralateral side . Limitation of preoperative motion correlated with limitation of postoperative AFE , AER , and PIR ( P < . 001 ) . Forty - seven patients considered clinically stiff were followed at 1 year postoperatively . Three patients required arthroscopic capsular release for persistent range of motion loss . CONCLUSION : Early postoperative limitation of motion after RCR is associated with restricted preoperative motion . Other factors , including diabetes mellitus and worker ' s compensation claim , are also associated with range of motion loss . Most shoulders with early motion loss recover motion and rarely require capsular release . [ Effect of osteopontin silencing by lentivirus - mediated delivery of siRNA on glioma cell invasion and apoptosis ] . OBJECTIVE : To investigate the effect of osteopontin silencing on the invasion and apoptosis of U251 cells . METHODS : The invasion , apoptosis and levels of uPA , MMP - 2 and MMP - 9 were determined by invasion assay , flow cytometry , Western blot and real - time fluorescence quantitative PCR respectively . RESULTS : Osteopontin small interference RNA ( siRNA ) inhibited osteopontin expression and cell invasion , promoted apoptosis in U251 cells . In addition , the expression of Bcl - 2 , uPA , MMP - 2 and MMP - 9 was decreased , while Bax level was elevated . CONCLUSION : Osteopontin siRNA can inhibit U251 cells invasion via the down - regulation of uPA , MMP - 2 and MMP - 9 levels , and promote apoptosis through induction of Bax expression and inhibition of Bcl 2 level . It suggests that osteopontin plays an important role in human glioma progression . The role of hypoxia in 2 - butoxyethanol - induced hemangiosarcoma . To understand the molecular mechanisms underlying compound - induced hemangiosarcomas in mice , and therefore , their human relevance , a systems biology approach was undertaken using transcriptomics and Causal Network Modeling from mice treated with 2 - butoxyethanol ( 2 - BE ) . 2 - BE is a hemolytic agent that induces hemangiosarcomas in mice . We hypothesized that the hemolysis induced by 2 - BE would result in local tissue hypoxia , a well - documented trigger for endothelial cell proliferation leading to hemangiosarcoma . Gene expression data from bone marrow ( BM ) , liver , and spleen of mice exposed to a single dose ( 4 h ) or seven daily doses of 2 - BE were used to develop a mechanistic model of hemangiosarcoma . The resulting mechanistic model confirms previous work proposing that 2 - BE induces macrophage activation and inflammation in the liver . In addition , the model supports local tissue hypoxia in the liver and spleen , coupled with increased erythropoeitin signaling and erythropoiesis in the spleen and BM , and suppression of mechanisms that contribute to genomic stability , events that could be contributing factors to hemangiosarcoma formation . Finally , an immunohistochemistry method ( Hypoxyprobe ) demonstrated that tissue hypoxia was present in the spleen and BM . Together , the results of this study identify molecular mechanisms that initiate hemangiosarcoma , a key step in understanding safety concerns that can impact drug decision processes , and identified hypoxia as a possible contributing factor for 2 - BE - induced hemangiosarcoma in mice . Magnitude of malate - aspartate reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide shuttle activity in intact respiring tumor cells . Measurements of respiration , CO2 and lactate production , and changes in the levels of various key metabolites of the glycolytic sequence and tricarboxylic acid cycle were made on five lines of rodent ascites tumor cells ( two strains of Ehrlich ascites tumor cells , Krebs II carcinoma , AS - 30D carcinoma , and L1210 cells ) incubated aerobically in the presence of uniformly labeled D - [ 14C ] glucose . From these data , as well as earlier evidence demonstrating that the reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide ( NADH ) shuttle in these cells requires a transaminase step and is thus identified as the malate - aspartate shuttle ( W . V . V . Greenhouse and A . L . Lehninger , Cancer Res . , 36 : 1392 - 1396 , 1976 ) , metabolic flux diagrams were constructed for the five cell lines . These diagrams show the relative rates of glycolysis , the tricarboxylic acid cycle , electron transport , and the malate - aspartate shuttle in these tumors . Large amounts of cytosolic NADH were oxidized by the mitochondrial respiratory chain via the NADH shuttle , comprising anywhere from about 20 to 80 % of the total flow of reducing equivalents to oxygen in these tumors . Calculations of the sources of energy for adenosine triphosphate synthesis indicated that on the average about one - third of the respiratory adenosine triphosphate is generated by electron flow originating from cytosolic NADH via the malate - aspartate shuttle . AKT2 is a downstream target of metabotropic glutamate receptor 1 ( Grm1 ) . We reported earlier on the oncogenic properties of Grm1 by demonstrating that stable Grm1 - mouse - melanocytic clones proliferate in the absence of growth supplement and anchorage in vitro . In addition , these clones also exhibit aggressive tumorigenic phenotypes in vivo with short latency in tumor formation in both immunodeficient and syngeneic mice . We also detected strong activation of AKT in allograft tumors specifically AKT2 as the predominant isoform involved . In parallel , we assessed several human melanoma biopsy samples and found again that AKT2 was the predominantly activated AKT in these human melanoma biopsies . In cultured stable Grm1 - mouse - melanocytic clones , as well as an metabotropic glutamate receptor 1 ( Grm1 ) expressing human melanoma cell line , C8161 , stimulation of Grm1 by its agonist led to the activation of AKT , while preincubation with Grm1 - antagonist abolished Grm1 - agonist - induced AKT activation . In addition , a reduction in tumor volume of Grm1 - mouse - melanocytic - allografts was detected in the presence of small interfering AKT2 RNA ( siAKT2 ) . Taken together , these results showed that , in addition to the MAPK pathway previously reported being a downstream target of stimulated Grm1 , AKT2 is another downstream target in Grm1 mediated melanocyte transformation . Pancreatic endocrine tumors : expression profiling evidences a role for AKT - mTOR pathway . PURPOSE : We investigated the global gene expression in a large panel of pancreatic endocrine tumors ( PETs ) aimed at identifying new potential targets for therapy and biomarkers to predict patient outcome . PATIENTS AND METHODS : Using a custom microarray , we analyzed 72 primary PETs , seven matched metastases , and 10 normal pancreatic samples . Relevant differentially expressed genes were validated by either quantitative real - time polymerase chain reaction or immunohistochemistry on tissue microarrays . RESULTS : Our data showed that : tuberous sclerosis 2 ( TSC2 ) and phosphatase and tensin homolog ( PTEN ) were downregulated in most of the primary tumors , and their low expression was significantly associated with shorter disease - free and overall survival ; somatostatin receptor 2 ( SSTR2 ) was absent or very low in insulinomas compared with nonfunctioning tumors ; and expression of fibroblast growth factor 13 ( FGF13 ) gene was significantly associated with the occurrence of liver metastasis and shorter disease - free survival . TSC2 and PTEN are two key inhibitors of the Akt / mammalian target of rapamycin ( mTOR ) pathway and the specific inhibition of mTOR with rapamycin or RAD001 inhibited cell proliferation of PET cell lines . CONCLUSION : Our results strongly support a role for PI3K / Akt / mTOR pathway in PET , which ties in with the fact that mTOR inhibitors have reached phase III trials in neuroendocrine tumors . The finding of differential SSTR expression raises the potential for SSTR expression to be evaluated as a marker of response to somatostatin analogs . Finally , we identified FGF13 as a new prognostic marker that predicted poorer outcome in patients who were clinically considered free from disease . Neural network analysis of spectroscopic data of lycopene and beta - carotene content in food samples compared to HPLC - UV - vis . In this study a neural network ( NN ) model was designed to predict lycopene and beta - carotene concentrations in food samples , combined with a simple and fast technique , such as UV - vis spectroscopy . The measurement of the absorbance at 446 and 502 nm of different beta - carotene and lycopene standard mixtures was used to optimize a neural network based on a multilayer perceptron ( MLP ) ( learning and verification process ) . Then , for validation purposes , the optimized NN has been applied to determine the concentration of both compounds in food samples ( fresh tomato , tomato concentrate , tomato sauce , ketchup , tomato juice , watermelon , medlar , green pepper , and carrots ) , comparing the NN results with the known values of these compounds obtained by analytical techniques ( UV - vis and HPLC ) . It was concluded that when the MLP - NN is used within the range studied , the optimized NN is able to estimate the beta - carotene and lycopene concentrations in food samples with an adequate accuracy , solving the UV - vis interference of beta - carotene and lycopene . Effectiveness of different approaches for establishing cisplatin - induced cochlear lesions in mice . CONCLUSIONS : Mouse cochleae are highly resistant to systemically administered cisplatin . However , cochlear lesions can be produced effectively in mice when cisplatin is applied locally through the round window niche or tympanum . OBJECTIVE : To explore the optimal approach for creating cisplatin - induced cochlear lesions in mice . MATERIALS AND METHODS : Cisplatin was administered to adult C57BL / 6J mice via four approaches : ( 1 ) transtympanic injection , ( 2 ) round window niche injection , ( 3 ) intraperitoneal injection ( i . p . ) at 4 mg / kg / day for 4 consecutive days , and ( 4 ) one 15 mg / kg dose i . p . The hearing was monitored using frequency - specific auditory brainstem responses ( ABRs ) and distortion - product otoacoustic emissions ( DPOAEs ) . Cochlear pathology was observed in cochleograms with Harris ' hematoxylin staining . RESULTS : Cisplatin applied systemically did not cause any significant ABR threshold elevation across the frequencies tested ( 2 - 32 kHz ) , whereas local application of cisplatin through the round window niche or tympanum resulted in significant ABR threshold elevations from high to medium frequencies . The functional changes were consistent with the cochlear pathology across groups . [ Reconstruction of hepatic artery in adult to adult living donor liver transplantation in 104 patients ] . OBJECTIVE : To report the experience of hepatic artery reconstruction with adult - to - adult living donor liver transplantation ( ALDLT ) using right lobe liver grafts . METHODS : From January 2002 to August 2007 , 104 patients underwent ALDLT using right lobe grafts . Hepatic arteries of donors and recipients were assessed carefully with spiral CT angiography and DSA before ALDLT . All patients underwent reconstruction of hepatic artery between right lobe liver grafts of donor and recipient which included the anastomosis between right hepatic artery of donors and recipients ; the reconstruction of right hepatic artery between donor grafts and left hepatic artery of recipients ; interpositional bypass using autogenous saphenous vein and cryopreserved iliac artery between right hepatic artery of donors and hepatic artery , common hepatic artery and abdominal aorta of recipients . The microsurgical technique was employed under the magnification of 3 . 5 times and operative microscope of 5 - 10 times . RESULTS : In these series , HAT occurred in 2 recipients at Days 1 and 7 post - ALDLT ( 1 . 9 % ) . Both were revascularized with autogenous saphenous vein between right hepatic artery of donor and abdominal aorta of recipient . HAT occurred in 1 recipient at Days 90 post - ALDLT , but no symptom was presented . There was no severe complication and mortality related to hepatic artery reconstruction in recipients . No HAT , hepatic artery stenosis and aneurysm occurred during the follow - up period of 2 - 60 months . The 1 , 2 and 3 - year survival rates were 89 . 3 % , 76 . 0 % and 69 . 3 % respectively . CONCLUSION : Careful evaluation of hepatic artery condition and using microsurgical techniques are important for safer arterial reconstruction and a long - term patency of hepatic artery in living donor liver transplantation in adults using right lobe liver grafts . ICAM - 3 enhances the migratory and invasive potential of human non - small cell lung cancer cells by inducing MMP - 2 and MMP - 9 via Akt and CREB . We have previously reported that intercellular adhesion molecule - 3 ( ICAM - 3 ) is associated with an increase of cellular radio - resistance and cancer cell proliferation . In this study , we hypothesized that ICAM - 3 has an additional effect on cancer cell migration and invasion because molecules induced by ICAM - 3 are known as regulators of cell migration and invasion . To examine this hypothesis , we used NCI - H1299 non - small cell lung cancer ( NSCLC ) cell line ( p53 and PTEN null cell ) and constructed an ICAM - 3 - over - expressing stable transfectant , which exhibited increased cell migration and invasion . The increased migration and invasion resulted from up - regulation of expression and activities of MMP - 2 and MMP - 9 . ICAM - 3 also increased Akt phosphorylation , which caused an increase in cellular migration / invasion and MMP activities . Activity of several transcriptional factors located downstream in the Akt pathway was also tested , and constitutive activation of adenosine 3 ' , 5 ' - monophosphate response element - binding protein ( CREB ) by ICAM - 3 was detected . Blockage of the Akt pathway attenuated CREB activation , and a decrease in CREB expression reduced cellular migration / invasion and activity of MMPs . This result indicates that CREB functions in the signaling pathway between Akt and MMP . We also showed ICAM - 3 - induced cell migration and invasion in NCI - H460 NSCLC cells ( wild - type p53 and PTEN cell ) through the same signaling pathway . Taken together , our findings suggest that ICAM - 3 stimulates cancer cell migration / invasion via ICAM - 3 / Akt / CREB / MMP pathway regardless of p53 and PTEN status , and this reflects the possibility that ICAM - 3 could be considered as a candidate for anti - cancer drug development and as a cancer diagnostic marker . Phenolic fraction of tobacco smoke condensate potentiates benzo [ a ] pyerene diol epoxide - induced cell transformation : role of protein kinase C . In this study we separated weakly acidic phenolic components from other neutral , acidic and basic components of tobacco smoke condensate ( TSC ) and observed that phenolic fraction of TSC significantly increased the number of colonies of promotion - sensitive JB6 Cl41 cells that showed anchorage - independent growth on soft agar in response to BPDE ( an ultimate carcinogen produced by metabolic activation of the PAH benzo [ a ] pyrene ) . Anchorage - independent cell growth is indicative of cell transformation resulting in acquisition of tumorigenic potential . In order to understand the underlying mechanism by which TSC phenolic fraction potentiates BPDE - induced tumorigenicity , we examined its effect on the activation of two transcription factors AP - 1 and NF - kappaB which are known to be influenced by established tumor promoter TPA . BPDE treatment caused induction of both AP - 1 and NF - kappaB activity as determined by luciferase reporter assay and only NF - kappaB induction in response to BPDE was significantly attenuated by TSC phenolic fraction whereas AP - 1 induction remains unaltered . Attenuation of NF - kappaB activation by TSC phenolic fraction was associated with significant decrease of intracellular PKC substrate phosphorylation in BPDE treated cells . Non - specific PKC inhibitors staurosporine and bisindolylmaleimide II as well as inhibitors specific to conventional PKCs ( Go6976 ) and PKC - delta ( rottlerin ) attenuated NF - kappaB activation in BPDE treated cells to a varying degree indicating a possible link between PKC down - regulation and the attenuation of NF - kappaB activity by TSC phenolic fraction . Treatment of cells with PKC inhibitors also potentiated anchorage - independent growth of BPDE treated cells on soft agar . Our data suggest a possible role of PKC down - regulation in potentiation of BPDE - induced tumorogenicity by TSC phenolic fraction . Costs of hip fracture . Rehabilitation of 180 patients in primary health care . Costs related to functional status were calculated for 180 consecutive hip fracture patients ( mean age 78 years ) who were admitted from their own home and rehabilitated in primary health care . Within 4 months after the fracture , 75 percent of the patients had been discharged to their own home , 9 percent were dead , and the short - term medical treatment costs per patient were SEK 43 , 000 , whereas the total costs including communal help and costs for living accommodations after discharge were twice as high . The total costs per patient for long - term medical treatment ( from 4 months up to 3 years after fracture ) were 7 percent of the short - term medical treatment costs . Patients with a cervical fracture discharged to their own home and with good functional status consumed only one fifth of the resources that patients with a trochanteric fracture discharged to institutional care and who had reduced functional status consumed . A substantial part of the costs can be saved by improved organization of rehabilitation after discharge from the hospital . A further cost reduction would require a combination of technologic , social , and organizational changes aimed at early discharge and continued follow - up in primary health care . The role of p53 in glucose metabolism . The p53 protein functions to prevent tumour development by inhibiting the outgrowth of stressed or damaged cells . In addition to well established functions to block cell proliferation , recent studies have revealed a role for p53 in the regulation of pathways involved in glucose metabolism . The metabolic functions of p53 resist the shift to glycolysis that is characteristically seen in cancers , and also help cells adapt to and survive limited periods of metabolic stress . Such activities of p53 would not only help to prevent cancer development , but might also contribute to non - tumour related roles for p53 , such as in the regulation of longevity . These new functions of p53 are providing interesting possibilities for the development of novel therapies . 14 - 3 - 3zeta Overexpression and abnormal beta - catenin expression are associated with poor differentiation and progression in stage I non - small cell lung cancer . Recent studies have shown that 14 - 3 - 3zeta interacted with other key cellular proteins involved in the tumor development and progression . Knowledge of 14 - 3 - 3zeta and beta - catenin expression and clinical significance in the same tumor tissues is limited . The purpose of this study was to investigate the expression and significance of 14 - 3 - 3zeta and beta - catenin in stage I non - small - cell lung cancer ( NSCLC ) . Specimens of NSCLC and adjacent normal lung tissues were collected from 110 patients . The expressions of 14 - 3 - 3zeta and beta - catenin were detected by western blotting , double labeling immunofluorescence , confocal laser scanning microscopy and immunohistochemistry . The expression of 14 - 3 - 3zeta was upregulated in stage I NSCLC . Further , the overexpression of 14 - 3 - 3zeta correlated with histological grades , lymph node metastasis and poor clinical outcome . Abnormal expression of beta - catenin was significantly correlated with poor differentiation and lymph node metastasis . Abnormal beta - catenin expression was associated significantly with positive 14 - 3 - 3zeta expression . In conclusion , 14 - 3 - 3zeta and beta - catenin might have an important role in development , progression and metastatic process of NSCLC . 14 - 3 - 3zeta might be used as prognostic biomarkers for NSCLC . A randomized pilot study of the Engaging Moms Program for family drug court . In response to the need for effective drug court interventions , the effectiveness of the Engaging Moms Program ( EMP ) versus Intensive Case Management Services ( ICMS ) on multiple outcomes for mothers enrolled in family drug court was investigated . In this intent - to - treat study , mothers ( N = 62 ) were randomly assigned to either usual drug court care or the Engaging Moms drug court program . Mothers were assessed at intake and 3 , 6 , 12 , and 18 months following intake . Results indicated that at 18 months post drug court enrollment , 77 % of mothers assigned to EMP versus 55 % of mothers assigned to ICMS had positive child welfare dispositions . There were statistically significant time effects for both intervention groups on multiple outcomes including substance use , mental health , parenting practices , and family functioning . EMP showed equal or better improvement than ICMS on all outcomes . The results suggest that EMP in family drug court is a viable and promising intervention approach to reduce maternal addiction and child maltreatment . Hormonal regulation and distinct functions of semaphorin - 3B and semaphorin - 3F in ovarian cancer . Semaphorins comprise a family of molecules that influence neuronal growth and guidance . Class - 3 semaphorins , semaphorin - 3B ( SEMA3B ) and semaphorin - 3F ( SEMA3F ) , illustrate their effects by forming a complex with neuropilins ( NP - 1 or NP - 2 ) and plexins . We examined the status and regulation of semaphorins and their receptors in human ovarian cancer cells . A significantly reduced expression of SEMA3B ( 83 kDa ) , SEMA3F ( 90 kDa ) , and plexin - A3 was observed in ovarian cancer cell lines when compared with normal human ovarian surface epithelial cells . The expression of NP - 1 , NP - 2 , and plexin - A1 was not altered in human ovarian surface epithelial and ovarian cancer cells . The decreased expression of SEMA3B , SEMA3F , and plexin - A3 was confirmed in stage 3 ovarian tumors . The treatment of ovarian cancer cells with luteinizing hormone , follicle - stimulating hormone , and estrogen induced a significant upregulation of SEMA3B , whereas SEMA3F was upregulated only by estrogen . Cotreatment of cell lines with a hormone and its specific antagonist blocked the effect of the hormone . Ectopic expression of SEMA3B or SEMA3F reduced soft - agar colony formation , adhesion , and cell invasion of ovarian cancer cell cultures . Forced expression of SEMA3B , but not SEMA3F , inhibited viability of ovarian cancer cells . Overexpression of SEMA3B and SEMA3F reduced focal adhesion kinase phosphorylation and matrix metalloproteinase - 2 and matrix metalloproteinase - 9 expression in ovarian cancer cells . Forced expression of SEMA3F , but not SEMA3B in ovarian cancer cells , significantly inhibited endothelial cell tube formation . Collectively , our results suggest that the loss of SEMA3 expression could be a hallmark of cancer progression . Furthermore , gonadotropin - and / or estrogen - mediated maintenance of SEMA3 expression could control ovarian cancer angiogenesis and metastasis . Tobacco smoke promotes lung tumorigenesis by triggering IKKbeta - and JNK1 - dependent inflammation . Chronic exposure to tobacco smoke , which contains over 60 tumor - initiating carcinogens , is the major risk factor for development of lung cancer , accounting for a large portion of cancer - related deaths worldwide . It is well established that tobacco smoke is a tumor initiator , but we asked whether it also acts as a tumor promoter once malignant initiation , such as caused by K - ras activation , has taken place . Here we demonstrate that repetitive exposure to tobacco smoke promotes tumor development both in carcinogen - treated mice and in transgenic mice undergoing sporadic K - ras activation in lung epithelial cells . Tumor promotion is due to induction of inflammation that results in enhanced pneumocyte proliferation and is abrogated by IKKbeta ablation in myeloid cells or inactivation of JNK1 . Killing tumor cells through their surface beta ( 2 ) - microglobulin or major histocompatibility complex class I molecules . Targeted antibody - based therapy has been used successfully to treat cancers . Recent studies have demonstrated that tumor cells treated with antibodies specific for beta ( 2 ) - microglobulin ( beta ( 2 ) M ) or major histocompatibility complex ( MHC ) class I molecules undergo apoptosis in vitro and in vivo ( mouse models ) . Antibodies against beta ( 2 ) M or MHC class I induce tumor cell apoptosis by 1 ) recruiting MHC class I molecules to lipid rafts and activating LYN kinase and the signal - transducing enzyme phospholipase C - gamma2 - dependent c - Jun N - terminal kinase signaling pathway and 2 ) expelling interleukin 6 and insulin - like growth factor 1 receptors out of lipid rafts and inhibiting the growth and survival factor - induced activation of the phosphatidylinositol 3 - kinase / Akt and extracellular signal - related kinase pathways . Consequently , mitochondrial integrity is compromised , and the caspase - 9 - dependent cascade is activated in treated tumor cells . However , although beta ( 2 ) M and MHC class I are expressed on normal hematopoietic cells , which is a potential safety concern , the monoclonal antibodies were selective to tumor cells and did not damage normal cells in vitro or in human - like mouse models . These findings suggest that targeting beta ( 2 ) M or MHC class I by using antibodies or other agents offers a potential therapeutic approach for beta ( 2 ) M / MHC class I - expressing malignancies . Cancer 2010 . ( c ) 2010 American Cancer Society . Further Characterization of Activin A - induced IgA Response in Murine B Lymphocytes . We have recently shown that activin A , a member of TGF - beta superfamily , stimulates mouse B cells to express IgA isotype but other isotypes . In the present study , we further characterized effects of activin A on B cell growth and IgA expression . We found that activin A did not have effect on LPS - stimulated cell viability . In parallel , CFSE staining analysis revealed that activin A did not alter cell division . An increase of IgA secretion by activin A was completely abrogated by anti - activin A Ab but not by anti - TGFbeta1 Ab . In the same conditions , no other isotypes are significantly affected by each antibody treatment . Finally , activin A , as similar to TGF - beta1 , increased IgA secretion by mesenteric lymph node cells . These results suggest that activin A can specifically stimulate IgA response , independent of TGF - beta in the gut . Posterior stabilization of the cervical spine with hook plates . Hook - plate fixation is designed for posterior cervical stabilization from C2 to C7 . Indications remain the same as for standard posterior fixations . The prime indications are discoligamentous injuries . The plates are hooked under the lower laminas and attached to the articular masses of the upper vertebra by oblique screws . An H - graft is placed between the spinous processes . The vertebrae are compressed together by the plates at three points , the facet joints , and graft . The resulting pre - stressed system is stable in all directions . A protocol for safe reduction of cervical dislocations is observed . Of 70 patients treated from 1979 to 1986 , 51 were examined 12 - 54 months after surgery . All fusions consolidated . Two neurologic complications not attributable to the fixation occurred . Other major complications were not seen . Comment on " Why reduced - form regression models of health effects versus exposures should not replace QRA : livestock production and infant mortality as an example , " by Louis Anthony ( Tony ) Cox , Jr . , Risk Analysis 2009 , Vol . 29 , No . 12 . While a recent paper by Cox in this journal uses as its motivating factor the benefits of quantitative risk assessment , its content is entirely devoted to critiquing Sneeringer ' s article in the American Journal of Agricultural Economics . Cox ' s two main critiques of Sneeringer are fundamentally flawed and misrepresent the original article . Cox posits that Sneeringer did A and B , and then argues why A and B are incorrect . However , Sneeringer in fact did C and D ; thus critiques of A and B are not applicable to Sneeringer ' s analysis . Dose - and time - dependent effects of doxorubicin on cytotoxicity , cell cycle and apoptotic cell death in human colon cancer cells . The cytostatic drug doxorubicin is a well - known chemotherapeutic agent which is used in treatment of a wide variety of cancers . A key factor in the response of cancer cells to chemotherapeutic drugs is the activation of the apoptotic pathway , a pathway that is often impaired in chemoresistant colon cancer cells . The aim of the present study was to investigate the effects of doxorubicin in Hct - 116 human colon carcinoma cells in order to clarify if a time / concentration range for optimal doxorubicin - induced apoptosis exists . We compared a treatment schedule were cells were bolus incubated for 3h with doxorubicin followed by 24h in drug - free medium , with a continuous doxorubicin treatment schedule for 24h . Bolus incubation was carried out to determine effects of doxorubicin accumulated during the first 3h , whereas continuous incubation allowed further ( continuous ) exposure to doxorubicin . We found that bolus ( 3h ) treatment with doxorubicin resulted in a dose - dependent decrease of viable cells and concomitant increase of apoptosis . Additionally , bolus ( 3h ) doxorubicin incubation led to phosphorylation of p53 at serine 392 , induction of p21 , G2 arrest and increase of proapoptotic protein Bax . In contrast , continuous ( 24h ) treatment with doxorubicin reduced the number of living cells with no parallel raise in the amount of dead cells . Continuous ( 24h ) treatment with 5 microM doxorubicin resulted in cell cycle arrest in G0 / G1 phase that was neither accompanied by phosphorylation and activation of p53 nor enhanced expression of p21 . These results suggest that doxorubicin is able to induce cell death by apoptosis only at particular dose and treatment conditions and imply a completely different cellular response following bolus or continuous exposure to doxorubicin . p24 family type 1 transmembrane proteins are required for insulin biosynthesis and secretion in pancreatic beta - cells . The p24 protein family have multiple functions in protein transport in the early secretory pathway . In this study we examined the role of p24 proteins in insulin transport . Several members were detected in insulinoma cell lines and rat islets and expression levels positively correlated with insulin abundance , particularly for p24delta1 and p24beta1 . Knocking down p24delta1 in insulinoma cell lines , which also resulted in the concomitant knock - down of other family members , impaired glucose - stimulated insulin secretion , decreased total cellular insulin content and reduced proinsulin biosynthesis . There was no effect on overall protein biosynthesis or ER stress . These results suggest that p24delta1 and possibly other p24 family proteins are required for normal insulin biosynthesis and subsequent secretion in pancreatic beta - cells . Absence of microbiota ( germ - free conditions ) accelerates the atherosclerosis in ApoE - deficient mice fed standard low cholesterol diet . AIM : The aim of our work was to determine the influence of intestinal bacteria on the development of atherosclerotic lesions using apolipoprotein E ( ApoE ) - deficient knockout mice . METHODS : The experiments were performed on ApoE - / - - deficient mouse strain C57BL / 6 , bred under germ - free ( GF ) conditions for two generations or under conventional conditions with defined microflora ( CV ) . The mice were fed a standard low cholesterol diet or cholesterol - rich diet for 3 - 4 months . We studied the development of advanced lesions in the thoracic and abdominal aorta by histological , morphometric and immunohistological methods . RESULTS : Conventionally reared ApoE - / - mice ( containing no pathogenic intestinal microbiota ) and fed a standard low cholesterol diet in contrast to a high cholesterol diet did not develop atherosclerotic aortic plaques . In contrast , ApoE - / - mice reared under germfree conditions for 2 generations and fed a low cholesterol diet exhibited atherosclerotic plaques in the aorta . Characteristic lipid deposition with foam cells and macrophages was found in their arterial walls . CONCLUSION : In contrast to the absence of atherosclerotic plaques in conventionally reared ApoE - deficient mice , germ - free ApoE - / - mice consuming the same low cholesterol standard diet developed atherosclerotic plaques in the aorta . Differences in atherosclerotic plaques between GF and CV ApoE - / - mice are not so apparent when mice are fed a high cholesterol diet . Our findings thus document the protective effect of microbiota ( commensal bacteria ) on atherosclerosis development . Lactate - dehydrogenase 5 is overexpressed in non - small cell lung cancer and correlates with the expression of the transketolase - like protein 1 . AIMS : As one of the five lactate dehydrogenase ( LDH ) isoenzymes , LDH5 has the highest efficiency to catalyze pyruvate transformation to lactate . LDH5 overexpression in cancer cells induces an upregulated glycolytic metabolism and reduced dependence on the presence of oxygen . Here we analyzed LDH5 protein expression in a well characterized large cohort of primary lung cancers in correlation to clinico - pathological data and its possible impact on patient survival . METHODS : Primary lung cancers ( n = 269 ) and non neoplastic lung tissue ( n = 35 ) were tested for LDH5 expression by immunohistochemistry using a polyclonal LDH5 antibody ( ab53010 ) . The results of LDH5 expression were correlated to clinico - pathological data as well as to patient ' s survival . In addition , the results of the previously tested transketolase like 1 protein ( TKTL1 ) expression were correlated to LDH5 expression . RESULTS : 89 . 5 % ( n = 238 ) of NSCLC revealed LDH5 expression whereas LDH5 expression was not detected in non neoplastic lung tissues ( n = 34 ) ( p < 0 . 0001 ) . LDH5 overexpression was associated with histological type ( adenocarcinoma = 57 % , squamous cell carcinoma = 45 % , large cell carcinoma = 46 % , p = 0 . 006 ) . No significant correlation could be detected with regard to TNM - stage , grading or survival . A two sided correlation between the expression of TKTL1 and LDH5 could be shown ( p = 0 . 002 ) within the overall cohort as well as for each grading and pN group . A significant correlation between LDH5 and TKTL1 within each histologic tumortype could not be revealed . CONCLUSIONS : LDH5 is overexpressed in NSCLC and could hence serve as an additional marker for malignancy . Furthermore , LDH5 correlates positively with the prognostic marker TKTL1 . Our results confirm a close link between the two metabolic enzymes and indicate an alteration in the glucose metabolism in the process of malignant transformation . Expression of KISS1 and MMP - 9 in non - small cell lung cancer and their relations to metastasis and survival . KISS1 and matrix metalloproteinase - 9 ( MMP - 9 ) may play important roles as metastasis suppressor and metastasis promoter genes , respectively , in a variety of malignancies . However , there is little information about their possible roles in non - small cell lung cancer ( NSCLC ) . The goals of this study were to determine the mRNA and protein expressions of KISS1 and MMP - 9 in NSCLC and their relations to metastasis and prognosis . The mRNA and protein expressions of KISS1 and of MMP - 9 protein were detected by in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry respectively in 85 cases of NSCLC , and their matched lymph node metastases . Expressions of KISS1 mRNA and protein were significantly higher in low TNM stages of NSCLC ( I - II ) compared to more advanced stages ( III - IV ) ( p < 0 . 05 ) . Moreover , in advanced TNM stages , cases without metastasis had higher KISS1 gene expression compared to those with lymph node metastasis ( p < 0 . 05 ) . In contrast , MMP - 9 expression was higher in stage III - IV NSCLC cases compared to stage I - II tumors ( p < 0 . 05 ) and higher in NSCLC cases with metastasis than those without metastasis ( p < 0 . 05 ) . There was negative correction between KISS1 and MMP - 9 protein expression ( p < 0 . 01 ) . The 5 - year survival rate in cases with higher KISS1 protein expression was significantly higher than in those with low expression ( 20 . 9 vs . 2 . 4 % , p < 0 . 01 ) . However , the 5 - year survival rate of patients with high MMP - 9 protein expression were lower than those with low expression ( 19 vs . 4 . 7 % , p < 0 . 05 ) . Our data suggest that KISS1 and MMP - 9 may serve as potential prognostic and therapeutic markers in lung cancer . Is the elimination of HIV infection within reach in the United States ? Lessons from an epidemiologic transmission model . Recent estimates show that the transmission rate of human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV ) in the U . S . has substantially decreased . This raises the question , is elimination of HIV infection in the nation feasible in the foreseeable future ? We demonstrate that if the HIV transmission rate were reduced by 50 % , then the reproductive rate of HIV infection would drop below unity and lead to eventual elimination of infection . In recent congressional testimony , the director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and others asserted that the HIV transmission rate can be halved by 2020 , if not earlier , provided sufficient investment is made toward achieving this goal . We assert that if adequate investment is made and the transmission rate is in fact lowered by 50 % , then the HIV reproductive rate would fall below unity , setting the stage for eventual elimination of HIV infection in the U . S . Loss of CDC4 / FBXW7 in gastric carcinoma . BACKGROUND : CDC4 / FBXW7 , encoding a ubiquitin ligase , maps to 4q32 and has been implicated as a tumor suppressor gene and therapeutic target in many tumor types . Mutations in colonic adenomas , and the frequent losses on 4q described in gastric cancer prompt speculation about the role of CDC4 / FBXW7 in gastric carcinogenesis . METHODS : We assessed the role of CDC4 / FBXW7 in gastric cancer , through loss of heterozygosity ( LOH ) and multiplex ligation - dependent probe amplification ( MLPA ) on 47 flow - sorted gastric carcinomas including early - onset gastric cancers ( EOGC ) and xenografted conventional gastric carcinomas . Ploidy analysis was carried out on 39 EOGCs and immunohistochemistry of CDC4 / FBXW7 and its substrates c - myc , c - jun , Notch and cyclin E was performed on 204 gastric carcinomas using tissue microarrays ( TMAs ) . Sequence analysis of CDC4 / FBXW7 was carried out on gastric carcinoma cell lines and xenografts . RESULTS : Loss of heterozygosity of CDC4 / FBXW7 occurred in 32 % of EOGCs , and correlated with loss of expression in 26 % . Loss of expression was frequent in both EOGC and conventional gastric cancers . No CDC4 / FBXW7 mutations were found and loss of CDC4 / FBXW7 did not correlate with ploidy status . There was a significant correlation between loss of CDC4 / FBXW7 expression and upregulation of c - myc . CONCLUSION : Loss of CDC4 / FBXW7 appears to play a role in both EOGC and conventional gastric carcinogenesis , and c - myc overexpression is likely to be an important oncogenic consequence of CDC4 / FBXW7 loss . Pain assessment by continuous EEG : association between subjective perception of tonic pain and peak frequency of alpha oscillations during stimulation and at rest . Recordings of neurophysiological brain responses to noxious stimuli have been traditionally based on short stimuli , in the order of milliseconds , which induce distinct event - related potentials ( ERPs ) . However , using such stimuli in the experimental setting is disadvantageous as they are too brief to faithfully simulate clinical pain . We aimed at utilizing continuous EEG to investigate the properties of peak alpha frequency ( PAF ) as an objective cortical measure associated with subjective perception of tonic pain . Five minute long continuous EEG was recorded in 18 healthy volunteers under : ( i ) resting - state ; ( ii ) innocuous temperature ; and ( iii ) psychophysically - anchored noxious temperature . Numerical pain scores ( NPSs ) collected during the application of tonic noxious stimuli were tested for correlation with peak frequencies of alpha power - curves derived from central , temporal and frontal electrodes . NPSs and PAFs remained stable throughout the recording conditions ( RM - ANOVAs ; Ps > 0 . 51 ) . In the noxious condition , PAFs obtained at the bilateral temporal scalp were correlated with NPSs ( Ps < 0 . 001 ) . Moreover , resting - state PAFs recorded at the bilateral temporal scalp were correlated with NPSs reported during the noxious condition ( Ps < 0 . 01 ) . These psychophysical - neurophysiological relations attest to the properties of PAF as a novel cortical objective measure of subjective perception of tonic pain . Moreover , resting - state PAFs might hold inherent pain modulation attributes , possibly enabling the prediction of individual responsiveness to prolonged pain . The relevance of PAF to the neural processing of tonic pain may indicate its potential to advance pain research as well as clinical pain characterization . Acoustic trauma evokes hyperactivity and changes in gene expression in guinea - pig auditory brainstem . Hearing loss from acoustic trauma is a risk factor for tinnitus . Animal models using acoustic trauma have demonstrated hyperactivity in central auditory pathways , which has been suggested as a substrate for tinnitus . We used a guinea - pig model of unilateral acoustic trauma . Within the same animals , measurements of peripheral hearing loss , spontaneous activity of single neurons in the inferior colliculus and gene expression in cochlear nucleus and inferior colliculus were combined , acutely and after recovery from acoustic trauma . Genes investigated related to inhibitory ( GABA - A receptor subunit alpha 1 ; glycine receptor subunit alpha 1 ) and excitatory neurotransmission ( glutamate decarboxylase 1 ; glutamate receptor AMPA subunit alpha 2 ; glutamate receptor NMDA subunit 1 ) , regulation of transmitter release ( member of RAB family of small GTPase ; RAB3 GTPase activating protein subunit 1 ) and neuronal excitability ( potassium channel subfamily K member 15 ) . Acoustic trauma resulted in unilateral hearing loss and hyperactivity bilaterally in inferior colliculus . Changes in expression of different mRNAs were observed in ipsilateral cochlear nucleus and in ipsi - and contralateral inferior colliculus , immediately after acoustic trauma , and after 2 and 4 weeks ' recovery . Gene expression was generally reduced immediately after trauma , followed by a return to near normal levels or over - expression as recovery time increased . Different mechanisms appear to underlie the spontaneous hyperactivity observed . There is evidence of down - regulation of genes associated with neuronal inhibition in the contralateral inferior colliculus , whereas in ipsilateral cochlear nucleus , competing actions of inhibitory and excitatory systems seem to play a major role in determining overall excitability . Telomere / telomerase interplay in virus - driven and virus - independent lymphomagenesis : pathogenic and clinical implications . Telomerase is a ribonucleoprotein complex critically involved in extending and maintaining telomeres . Unlike the majority of somatic cells , in which hTERT and telomerase activity are generally silent , normal lymphocytes show transient physiological hTERT expression and telomerase activity according to their differentiation / activation status . During lymphomagenesis , induction of persistent telomerase expression and activity may occur before or after telomere shortening , as a consequence of the different mechanisms through which transforming factors / agents may activate telomerase . Available data indicate that the timing of telomerase activation may allow the distinction of two different lymphomagenetic models : ( i ) an early activation of telomerase via exogenous regulators of hTERT , along with an increased lymphocyte growth and a subsequent selection of cells with increased transforming potential may characterize several virus - related lymphoid malignancies ; ( ii ) a progressive shortening of telomeres , leading to genetic instability which favors a subsequent activation of telomerase via endogenous regulators may occur in most virus - unrelated lymphoid tumors . These models may have clinically relevant implications , particularly for the tailoring of therapeutic strategies targeting telomerase . Angiogenesis inhibitors : current strategies and future prospects . Angiogenesis has become an attractive target for drug therapy because of its key role in tumor growth . An extensive array of compounds is currently in preclinical development , with many now entering the clinic and / or achieving approval from the US Food and Drug Administration . Several regulatory and signaling molecules governing angiogenesis are of interest , including growth factors ( eg , vascular endothelial growth factor , platelet - derived growth factor , fibroblast growth factor , and epidermal growth factor ) , receptor tyrosine kinases , and transcription factors such as hypoxia inducible factor , as well as molecules involved in mitogen - activated protein kinase ( MAPK ) and phosphoinositide 3 - kinase ( PI3K ) signaling . Pharmacologic agents have been identified that target these pathways , yet for some agents ( notably thalidomide ) , an understanding of the specific mechanisms of antitumor action has proved elusive . The following review describes key molecular mechanisms and novel therapies that are on the horizon for antiangiogenic tumor therapy . A generative model for image segmentation based on label fusion . We propose a nonparametric , probabilistic model for the automatic segmentation of medical images , given a training set of images and corresponding label maps . The resulting inference algorithms rely on pairwise registrations between the test image and individual training images . The training labels are then transferred to the test image and fused to compute the final segmentation of the test subject . Such label fusion methods have been shown to yield accurate segmentation , since the use of multiple registrations captures greater inter - subject anatomical variability and improves robustness against occasional registration failures . To the best of our knowledge , this manuscript presents the first comprehensive probabilistic framework that rigorously motivates label fusion as a segmentation approach . The proposed framework allows us to compare different label fusion algorithms theoretically and practically . In particular , recent label fusion or multiatlas segmentation algorithms are interpreted as special cases of our framework . We conduct two sets of experiments to validate the proposed methods . In the first set of experiments , we use 39 brain MRI scans - with manually segmented white matter , cerebral cortex , ventricles and subcortical structures - to compare different label fusion algorithms and the widely - used FreeSurfer whole - brain segmentation tool . Our results indicate that the proposed framework yields more accurate segmentation than FreeSurfer and previous label fusion algorithms . In a second experiment , we use brain MRI scans of 282 subjects to demonstrate that the proposed segmentation tool is sufficiently sensitive to robustly detect hippocampal volume changes in a study of aging and Alzheimer ' s Disease . Yellow - green 52 . 3W laser at 556nm based on frequency doubling of a diode side - pumped Q - switched Nd : YAG laser . We demonstrate a high - power 556nm yellow - green laser generated by intracavity frequency doubling of a diode side - pumped Nd : YAG laser at 1112nm . A symmetrical L - shaped flat - flat cavity was employed to implement efficient operation of the low - gain 1112nm transition and to achieve good power scalability . The coatings of the cavity mirrors were carefully designed to optimize the performance of the laser , and a 92W continuous wave laser output at 1112nm was achieved when the pumping power of the laser diodes reached 960W . By intracavity frequency doubling of the fundamental laser in a lithium triborate crystal , the maximum power of the frequency - doubled output at 556nm was found to be as high as 52 . 3W with a pulse repetition frequency of 10kHz . This corresponds to an optical - to - optical conversion efficiency of about 5 . 4 % . Betulin induces mitochondrial cytochrome c release associated apoptosis in human cancer cells . We examined whether betulin , a naturally abundant compound , has anticancer functions in human cancer cells . The results showed that betulin significantly inhibited cell viability in cervix carcinoma HeLa cells , hepatoma HepG2 cells , lung adenocarcinoma A549 cells , and breast cancer MCF - 7 cells with IC ( 50 ) values ranging from 10 to 15 microg / mL . While betulin exhibited only moderate anticancer activity in other human cancer cells such as hepatoma SK - HEP - 1 cells , prostate carcinoma PC - 3 , and lung carcinoma NCI - H460 , with IC ( 50 ) values ranging from 20 to 60 microg / mL , it showed minor growth inhibition in human erythroleukemia K562 cells ( IC ( 50 ) > 100 microg / mL ) . We further investigated the mechanism of anticancer activity by betulin , using HeLa cells as an experimental model . Betulin ( 10 microg / mL ) induces apoptotic cell death , as evidenced by morphological characteristics such as membrane phosphatidylserine translocation , nuclear condensation / fragmentation , and apoptotic body formation . A kinetics analysis showed that the depolarization of mitochondrial membrane potential and the release of mitochondrial cytochrome c occurred as early as 30 min after treatment with betulin . Betulin , unlike its chemical derivative betulinic acid , did not directly trigger mitochondrial cytochrome c release in isolated mitochondria . Importantly , Bax and Bak were rapidly translocated to the mitochondria 30 min after betulin treatment . The sequential activation of caspase - 9 and caspase - 3 / - 7 and the cleavage of poly ( ADP - ribose ) polymerase ( PARP ) were observed behind those mitochondrial events . Furthermore , specific downregulation of either caspase - 9 , Bax , or Bak by siRNA effectively reduced PARP cleavage and caspase - 3 activation . Taken together , the lines of evidence demonstrate that betulin triggers apoptosis of human cancer cells through the intrinsic apoptotic pathway . Relationship and prognostic significance of SPARC and VEGF protein expression in colon cancer . BACKGROUND : SPARC ( secreted protein , acidic and rich in cysteine ) is closely related with the progress , invasion and metastasis of malignant tumor and angiogenesis . METHODS : Using human colon adenocarcinoma tissues ( hereinafter referred to as colon cancer ) and their corresponding non - diseased colon from 114 patients ' biopsies , the expression of SPARC and vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) were investigated by immunohistochemistry staining to assessment the relationship between SPARC and VEGF , as well as their prognostic significance in patients . Evaluation of VEGF expression level with the same tissues was used to establish the antigenic profiles , and the marker of CD34 staining was used as an indicator of microvessel density ( MVD ) . RESULTS : SPARC expression was mainly in the stromal cells surrounding the colon cancer , and was significant difference in those tissues with the lymph node metastasis and differentiation degree of tumor . Expression of SPARC was significantly correlated with the expression of VEGF and MVD in colon cancer tissues . Patients with low or absence expressing SPARC had significantly worse overall survival and disease - free survival in a Single Factor Analysis ; Cox Regression Analysis , SPARC emerged as an overall survival and disease - free survival independent prognostic factor for colon cancer . CONCLUSION : The low expression or absence of stromal SPARC was an independent prognostic factor for poor prognosis of colon cancer . SPARC maybe involved in the regulation of anti - angiogenesis by which it may serve as a novel target for colon cancer treatment as well as a novel distinctive marker . Prognostic significance of TRAIL signaling molecules in stage II and III colorectal cancer . PURPOSE : We previously found that cellular FLICE - inhibitory protein ( c - FLIP ) , caspase 8 , and tumor necrosis factor - related apoptosis - inducing ligand ( TRAIL ) receptor 2 ( DR5 ) are major regulators of cell viability and chemotherapy - induced apoptosis in colorectal cancer . In this study , we determined the prognostic significance of c - FLIP , caspase 8 , TRAIL and DR5 expression in tissues from patients with stage II and III colorectal cancer . EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN : Tissue microarrays were constructed from matched normal and tumor tissue derived from patients ( n = 253 ) enrolled in a phase III trial of adjuvant 5 - fluorouracil - based chemotherapy versus postoperative observation alone . TRAIL , DR5 , caspase 8 , and c - FLIP expression levels were determined by immunohistochemistry . RESULTS : Colorectal tumors displayed significantly higher expression levels of c - FLIP ( P < 0 . 001 ) , caspase 8 ( P = 0 . 01 ) , and DR5 ( P < 0 . 001 ) , but lower levels of TRAIL ( P < 0 . 001 ) compared with matched normal tissue . In univariate analysis , higher TRAIL expression in the tumor was associated with worse overall survival ( P = 0 . 026 ) , with a trend to decreased relapse - free survival ( RFS ; P = 0 . 06 ) , and higher tumor c - FLIP expression was associated with a significantly decreased RFS ( P = 0 . 015 ) . Using multivariate predictive modeling for RFS in all patients and including all biomarkers , age , treatment , and stage , we found that the model was significant when the mean tumor c - FLIP expression score and disease stage were included ( P < 0 . 001 ) . As regards overall survival , the overall model was predictive when both TRAIL expression and disease stage were included ( P < 0 . 001 ) . CONCLUSIONS : High c - FLIP and TRAIL expression may be independent adverse prognostic markers in stage II and III colorectal cancer and might identify patients most at risk of relapse . Overexpression of Bax inhibitor - 1 ( BI - 1 ) induces cell transformation in NIH3T3 cells . BI - 1 ( Bax inhibitor - 1 ) , an apoptosis - inhibiting gene belonging to the Bcl - 2 protein family , plays an important role in mitochondrial apoptosis pathway to suppress Bax - induced apoptosis . To investigate the potential role of BI - 1 in promoting cell growth and tumorigenesis , in the present study we overexpressed the BI - 1 gene in NIH3T3 cells using the lentivirus - mediated gene expression system . Our in vitro studies showed that NIH3T3 cells overexpressing BI - 1 displayed a significantly higher growth rate and formed more and larger colonies than the control cells . In addition , our in vivo studies indicated that the lenti - BI - 1 - infected cells formed obvious tumours , while no tumours were formed by the control cells after subcutaneously injected into nude mice . These results strongly suggested that the BI - 1 gene might play a crucial role in neoplastic genesis and development . Structure of human hemoglobin messenger RNA and its relation to hemoglobinopathies . 1 . One - fifth to 1 / 4 of globin mRNA is untranslated sequence other than polyadenylic acid . 2 . The untranslated sequences of mRNA vary markedly in their sequence and in their length . 3 . Globin mRNAs demonstrate a marked bias in codon selection . 4 . Viral mRNA shows a quite different pattern of codon selection ; therefore , the selection of codons is not uniform for all mRNAs functioning in animal cells . 5 . Elongated hemoglobin chains can be accounted for by frame - shift mutations , or point mutations within the normal termination codon . The additional amino acids are then coded for by sequences that are normally untranslated . 6 . Certain hemoglobin deletion mutants occur at sites where there are partially reiterated sequences within the heomoglobin messenger RNA . Anti - metastasis effects of gallic acid on gastric cancer cells involves inhibition of NF - kappaB activity and downregulation of PI3K / AKT / small GTPase signals . Polyphenols are natural antioxidants that are thought to contribute to prevention of cardiovascular disease and malignancy . Although many studies have been carried out to investigate the chemopreventive role of flavonoids , less attention has been focused on phenolic acids . In this study , the aim was to investigate the effect of phenolic acids found abundantly in vegetables , i . e . gallic acid ( GA ) , caffeic acid ( CA ) and protocatechuic acid ( PCA ) , on the inhibition of gastric adenocarcinoma ( AGS ) cell metastasis . The results showed 0 . 01 mM GA induced the same level of cell toxicity as 4 . 0mM PCA . Using wound - healing assay and Boyden chamber assay , GA had potent inhibitory effects on AGS cell migration . The expression of MMP - 2 / 9 of AGS cells was inhibited by 2 . 0 microM of GA . It is possible that the suppressive effect of GA on MMP - 2 / 9 might involve the inhibition of NF - kappaB activity . Multiple proteins involved in metastasis and the cytoskeletal reorganization signal pathway , including Ras , Cdc42 , Rac1 , RhoA , RhoB , PI3K and p38MAPK , were also inhibited by GA . Furthermore , immunoreactivity assay of cytoskeletal F - actin demonstrated a significant inhibitory effect of GA treatment . In conclusion , GA may have the potential to be an effective agent for prevention and treatment of gastric cancer metastasis . 1 , 4 - phenylenebis ( methylene ) selenocyanate , but not selenomethionine , inhibits androgen receptor and Akt signaling in human prostate cancer cells . The lack of treatment for worried - well patients with high - grade prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia combined with issues of recurrence and hormone resistance in prostate cancer survivors remains a major public health obstacle . The long latency of prostate cancer development provides an opportunity to intervene with agents of known mechanisms at various stages of disease progression . A number of signaling cascades have been shown to play important roles in prostate cancer development and progression , including the androgen receptor ( AR ) and phosphatidylinositol 3 - kinase / Akt signaling pathways . Crosstalk between these two pathways is also thought to contribute to progression and hormone - refractory prostate disease . Our initial investigations show that the naturally occurring organoselenium compound selenomethionine ( SM ) and the synthetic 1 , 4 - phenylenebis ( methylene ) selenocyanate ( p - XSC ) can inhibit human prostate cancer cell viability ; however , in contrast to SM , p - XSC is active at physiologically relevant doses . In the current investigation , we show that p - XSC , but not an equivalent dose of SM , alters molecular targets and induces apoptosis in androgen - responsive LNCaP and androgen - independent LNCaP C4 - 2 human prostate cancer cells . p - XSC effectively inhibits AR expression and transcriptional activity in both cell lines . p - XSC also decreases Akt phosphorylation as well as Akt - specific phosphorylation of the AR . Inhibition of Akt , however , does not fully attenuate p - XSC - mediated downregulation of AR activity , suggesting that inhibition of AR signaling by p - XSC does not occur solely through alterations in the phosphatidylinositol 3 - kinase / Akt survival pathway . Our data suggest that p - XSC inhibits multiple signaling pathways in prostate cancer , likely accounting for the downstream effects on proliferation and apoptosis . Listerine : past , present and future - - a test of thyme . Listerine , a mouthrinse composed of a mixture of essential oils , was created in 1879 and was originally formulated as a surgical antiseptic . In spite of its known antimicrobial properties it was thought of as a product in search of a use and promoted as a deterrent for halitosis and as a floor cleaner . In the last several years Listerine has emerged as a bona fide therapeutic agent for reduction of plaque induced oral diseases . In contrast to the inconsistent history of Listerine , systemic antibiotics discovered in the 1940 ' s were heralded as miracle drugs . However , the value of prophylactic usage of antibiotics has come under scrutiny as a result of increasing resistance and adverse reactions . Moreover , reports by both American and British professional societies have led to a re - evaluation of the relative risks associated with plaque induced bacteremia when twice - yearly visits to dental professionals are compared to daily activities . These new recommendations and revelations open the door for local antimicrobial approaches to reduce the challenge of plaque - induced bacteremias . These issues will be discussed in the context of Listerine , its intricate and complicated past , and its connection to current uses in oral health and beyond . Ventral and dorsal striatal dopamine efflux and behavior in rats with simple vs . co - morbid histories of cocaine sensitization and neonatal ventral hippocampal lesions . UNLABELLED : RATIONAL : Exposing animal models of mental illness to addictive drugs provides an approach to understanding the neural etiology of dual diagnosis disorders . Previous studies have shown that neonatal ventral hippocampal lesions ( NVHL ) in rats produce features of both schizophrenia and addiction vulnerability . OBJECTIVE : This study investigated ventral and dorsal striatal dopamine ( DA ) efflux in NVHL rats combined with behavioral sensitization to cocaine . METHODS : Adult NVHL vs . SHAM - operated rats underwent a 5 - day injection series of cocaine ( 15 mg / kg / day ) vs . saline . One week later , rats were cannulated in nucleus accumbens SHELL , CORE , or caudate - putamen . Another week later , in vivo microdialysis sampled DA during locomotor testing in which a single cocaine injection ( 15 mg / kg ) was delivered . RESULTS : NVHLs and cocaine history significantly increased behavioral activation approximately 2 - fold over SHAM - saline history rats . DA efflux curves corresponded time dependently with the cocaine injection and locomotor curves and varied significantly by striatal region : Baseline DA levels increased 5 - fold while cocaine - stimulated DA efflux decreased by half across a ventral to dorsal striatal gradient . However , NVHLs , prior cocaine history , and individual differences in behavior were not underpinned by differential DA efflux overall or within any striatal region . CONCLUSION : Differences in ventral / dorsal striatal DA efflux are not present in and are not required for producing differential levels of acute cocaine - induced behavioral activation in NVHLs with and without a behaviorally sensitizing cocaine history . These findings suggest other neurotransmitter systems , and alterations in striatal network function post - synaptic to DA transmission are more important to understanding the interactive effects of addictive drugs and mental illness . Adenovirus 5 E1A enhances histone deacetylase inhibitors - induced apoptosis through Egr - 1 - mediated Bim upregulation . Histone deacetylase inhibitors ( HDACi ) are potent anti - cancer agents for variety of cancer types . Suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid ( SAHA ) has been approved as a drug to treat cutaneous T cell lymphoma , and the combination of HDACi and other agents have been actively tested in many clinical trials . Adenovirus 5 early region 1A ( E1A ) has been shown to exhibit high tumor suppressor activity , and gene therapy using E1A has been tested in clinical trials . Here , we showed that proapoptotic activity of HDACi was robustly enhanced by E1A in multiple cancer cells , but not in normal cells . Moreover , we showed that combination of E1A gene therapy and SAHA showed high therapeutic efficacy with low toxicity in vivo ovarian and breast xenograft models . SAHA downregulated Bcl - XL and upregulated proapoptotic BH3 - only protein Bim , whose expression was further enhanced by E1A in cancer cells . These alterations of Bcl - 2 family proteins were critical for apoptosis induced by the combination in cancer cells . SAHA enhanced acetylation of histone H3 in Bim promoter region , while E1A upregulated Egr - 1 , which was directly involved in Bim transactivation . Together , our results provide not only a novel insight into the mechanisms underlying anti - tumor activity of E1A , but also a rationale for the combined HDACi and E1A gene therapy in future clinical trials . Sanguinarine induces apoptosis of human osteosarcoma cells through the extrinsic and intrinsic pathways . The quaternary benzo [ c ] phenanthridine alkaloid sanguinarine inhibits the proliferation of cancerous cells from different origins , including lung , breast , pancreatic and colon , but nothing is known of its effects on osteosarcoma , a primary malignant bone tumour . We have found that sanguinarine alters the morphology and reduces the viability of MG - 63 and SaOS - 2 human osteosarcoma cell lines in concentration - and time - dependent manner . Incubation with 1 micromol / L sanguinarine for 4 and 24h killed more efficiently MG - 63 cells than SaOS - 2 cells , while incubation with 5 micromol / L sanguinarine killed almost 100 % of both cell populations within 24h . This treatment also changed the mitochondrial membrane potential in both MG - 63 and SaOS - 2 cells within 1h , caused chromatin condensation and the formation of apoptotic bodies . It activated multicaspases , and increased the activities of caspase - 8 and caspase - 9 in both MG - 63 and SaOS - 2 cells . These data highlight sanguinarine as a novel potential agent for bone cancer therapy . Using a web - based orthopaedic clinic in the curricular teaching of a German university hospital : analysis of learning effect , student usage and reception . PURPOSE : Modern teaching concepts for undergraduate medical students in Germany include problem based learning as a major component of the new licensing regulations for physicians . Here we describe the usage of a web - based virtual outpatient clinic in the teaching curriculum of undergraduate medical students , its effect on learning success , and student reception . METHODS : Fifth year medial students were requested to examine 7 virtual orthopaedic patients which had been created by the authors using the Inmedea - Simulator . They also had to take a multiple - choice examination on two different occasions and their utilisation of the simulator was analysed subjectively and objectively . RESULTS : One hundred and sixty students took part in the study . The average age was 24 . 9 years , 60 % were female . Most of the participants studied on their own using their private computer with a fast internet - connection at home . The average usage time was 263 min , most of the students worked with the system in the afternoon , although a considerable number used it late in the night . Regarding learning success , we found that the examination results were significantly better after using the system ( 7 . 66 versus 8 . 37 , p < 0 . 0001 ) . Eighty percent of the students enjoyed dealing with the virtual patients emphasizing the completeness of patient cases , the artistic graphic design and the expert comments available , as well as the good applicability to real cases . Eighty - seven percent of the students graded the virtual orthopaedic clinic as appropriate to teach orthopaedic content . CONCLUSION : Using the Inmedea - Simulator is an effective method to enhance students ' learning efficacy . The way the system was used by the students emphasises the advantages of the internet - like free time management and the implementation of multimedia - based content . Constitutively nuclear FOXO3a localization predicts poor survival and promotes Akt phosphorylation in breast cancer . BACKGROUND : The PI3K - Akt signal pathway plays a key role in tumorigenesis and the development of drug - resistance . Cytotoxic chemotherapy resistance is linked to limited therapeutic options and poor prognosis . METHODOLOGY / PRINCIPAL FINDINGS : Examination of FOXO3a and phosphorylated - Akt ( P - Akt ) expression in breast cancer tissue microarrays showed nuclear FOXO3a was associated with lymph node positivity ( p = 0 . 052 ) , poor prognosis ( p = 0 . 014 ) , and P - Akt expression in invasive ductal carcinoma . Using tamoxifen and doxorubicin - sensitive and - resistant breast cancer cell lines as models , we found that doxorubicin - but not tamoxifen - resistance is associated with nuclear accumulation of FOXO3a , consistent with the finding that sustained nuclear FOXO3a is associated with poor prognosis . We also established that doxorubicin treatment induces proliferation arrest and FOXO3a nuclear relocation in sensitive breast cancer cells . Induction of FOXO3a activity in doxorubicin - sensitive MCF - 7 cells was sufficient to promote Akt phosphorylation and arrest cell proliferation . Conversely , knockdown of endogenous FOXO3a expression reduced PI3K / Akt activity . Using MDA - MB - 231 cells , in which FOXO3a activity can be induced by 4 - hydroxytamoxifen , we showed that FOXO3a induction up - regulates PI3K - Akt activity and enhanced doxorubicin resistance . However FOXO3a induction has little effect on cell proliferation , indicating that FOXO3a or its downstream activity is deregulated in the cytotoxic drug resistant breast cancer cells . Thus , our results suggest that sustained FOXO3a activation can enhance hyperactivation of the PI3K / Akt pathway . CONCLUSIONS / SIGNIFICANCE : Together these data suggest that lymph node metastasis and poor survival in invasive ductal breast carcinoma are linked to an uncoupling of the Akt - FOXO3a signaling axis . In these breast cancers activated Akt fails to inactivate and re - localize FOXO3a to the cytoplasm , and nuclear - targeted FOXO3a does not induce cell death or cell cycle arrest . As such , sustained nuclear FOXO3a expression in breast cancer may culminate in cancer progression and the development of an aggressive phenotype similar to that observed in cytotoxic chemotherapy resistant breast cancer cell models . The neural stem cell fate determinant TLX promotes tumorigenesis and genesis of cells resembling glioma stem cells . A growing body of evidence indicates that deregulation of stem cell fate determinants is a hallmark of many types of malignancies . The neural stem cell fate determinant TLX plays a pivotal role in neurogenesis in the adult brain by maintaining neural stem cells . Here , we report a tumorigenic role of TLX in brain tumor initiation and progression . Increased TLX expression was observed in a number of glioma cells and glioma stem cells , and correlated with poor survival of patients with gliomas . Ectopic expression of TLX in the U87MG glioma cell line and Ink4a / Arf - deficient mouse astrocytes ( Ink4a / Arf ( - / - ) astrocytes ) induced cell proliferation with a concomitant increase in cyclin D expression , and accelerated foci formation in soft agar and tumor formation in in vivo transplantation assays . Furthermore , overexpression of TLX in Ink4a / Arf ( - / - ) astrocytes inhibited cell migration and invasion and promoted neurosphere formation and Nestin expression , which are hallmark characteristics of glioma stem cells , under stem cell culture conditions . Our results indicate that TLX is involved in glioma stem cell genesis and represents a potential therapeutic target for this type of malignancy . Actin - sequestering protein , thymosin beta - 4 , is a novel hypoxia responsive regulator . Angiogenesis is induced by soluble factors such as vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) released from tumor cells in hypoxia . It enhances solid tumor growth and provides an ability to establish metastasis at peripheral sites by tumor cell migration . Thymosin beta - 4 ( TB4 ) is an actin - sequestering protein to control cytoskeletal reorganization . Here , we investigated whether angiogenesis and tumor metastasis are dependent on hypoxia conditioning - induced TB4 expression in B16F10 melanoma cells . TB4 expression in B16F10 cells was increased by hypoxia conditioning in a time - dependent manner . In addition , we found an increase of angiogenesis and HIF - 1alpha expression in TB4 - transgenic ( Tg ) mice as compared to wildtype mice . When wound healing assay was used to assess in vitro tumor cell migration , hypoxia conditioning for 1 h enhanced B16F10 cell migration . When TB4 expression in B16F10 cells was inhibited by the infection with small hairpin ( sh ) RNA of TB4 cloned in lentiviral vector , tumor cell migration was retarded . In addition , hypoxia conditioning - induced tumor cell migration was reduced by the infection of lentiviral shRNA of TB4 . HIF - 1alpha stabilization and the expression of VEGF isoform 165 and 121 in hypoxia were also reduced by the infection of lentiviral shRNA of TB4 in B16F10 cells . We also found an increase of tumor growth and lung metastasis count in TB4 - Tg mice as compared to wildtype mice . Collectively , hypoxia conditioning induced tumor cell migration by TB4 expression - dependent HIF - 1alpha stabilization . It suggests that TB4 could be a hypoxia responsive regulator to control tumor cell migration in angiogenesis and tumor metastasis . Acute ablation of Langerhans cells enhances skin immune responses . Understanding the function of Langerhans cells ( LCs ) in vivo has been complicated by conflicting results from LC - deficient mice . Human Langerin - DTA mice constitutively lack LCs and develop exaggerated contact hypersensitivity ( CHS ) responses . Murine Langerin - diphtheria toxin receptor ( DTR ) mice allow for the inducible elimination of LCs and Langerin ( + ) dermal dendritic cells ( dDCs ) after administration of diphtheria toxin , which results in reduced CHS . When Langerin ( + ) dDCs have partially repopulated the skin but LCs are still absent , CHS returns to normal . Thus , LCs appear to be suppressive in human Langerin - DTA mice and redundant in murine Langerin - DTR mice . To determine whether inducible versus constitutive LC ablation explains these results , we engineered human Langerin - DTR mice in which diphtheria toxin ablates LCs without affecting Langerin ( + ) dDCs . The inducible ablation of LCs in human Langerin - DTR mice resulted in increased CHS . Thus , LC - mediated suppression does not require their absence during ontogeny or during the steady - state and is consistent with a model in which LCs actively suppress Ag - specific CHS responses . Skin deep and deeper : multiple pathways in basal cell carcinogenesis . This perspective places the report by Villani et al . that appears in this issue of the journal ( beginning on page 1222 ) in the context of recent work showing an intersection between two important developmental pathways implicated in oncogenesis : the hedgehog and insulin - like growth factor ( IGF ) pathways . Villani et al . define a key role for the IGF regulatory protein Igfbp2 in a genetic model of basal cell carcinogenesis driven by targeted constitutive activation of hedgehog signaling . Placed in the framework of other recently published work , the observations of Villani et al . both raise questions about the cell of origin for basal cell cancers and define additional putative therapeutic and preventive targets for this disease . Brick1 is an essential regulator of actin cytoskeleton required for embryonic development and cell transformation . Brick1 ( Brk1 ) is the less - studied component of the Wave / Scar pathway involved in the branched nucleation of actin fibers . The clinical relevance of Brk1 is emphasized by correlative data showing that Von Hippel - Lindau ( VHL ) patients that also lose the BRK1 gene are protected against the development of tumors . This contrasts with recent evidence suggesting that the Wave complex may function as an invasion suppressor in epithelial cancers . Here , we show that the downregulation of Brk1 results in abnormal actin stress fiber formation and vinculin distribution and loss of Arp2 / 3 and Wave proteins at the cellular protrusions . Brk1 is required for cell proliferation and cell transformation by oncogenes . In addition , Brk1 downregulation results in defective directional migration and invasive growth in renal cell carcinoma cells as well as in other tumor cell types . Finally , genetic ablation of Brk1 results in dramatic defects in embryo compaction and development , suggesting an essential role for this protein in actin dynamics . Thus , genetic loss or inhibition of BRK1 is likely to be protective against tumor development due to proliferation and motility defects in affected cells . The proenkephalin - A - derivative Met - enkephalin - Arg - Gly - Leu is not present in the feline species . No opioid octapeptide Met - enkephalin - Arg - Gly - Leu was detected either in the brain or in the adrenal gland of the cat using a specific radioimmunoassay . Whereas it was possible to determine the Met - enkephalin and Leu - enkephalin contents . The Met - enkephalin versus Leu - enkephalin concentration ratio was around five in each area of the brain assayed . The presence of authentic Met - enkephalin and Leu - enkephalin was confirmed by high performance liquid chromatography analysis . All in all , these data seem to indicate that the cat proenkephalin is partly different from that previously analysed in mammalian species including humans , rats and cows . Ras - association domain family 1C protein promotes breast cancer cell migration and attenuates apoptosis . BACKGROUND : The Ras association domain family 1 ( RASSF1 ) gene is a Ras effector encoding two major mRNA forms , RASSF1A and RASSF1C , derived by alternative promoter selection and alternative mRNA splicing . RASSF1A is a tumor suppressor gene . However , very little is known about the function of RASSF1C both in normal and transformed cells . METHODS : Gene silencing and over - expression techniques were used to modulate RASSF1C expression in human breast cancer cells . Affymetrix - microarray analysis was performed using T47D cells over - expressing RASSF1C to identify RASSF1C target genes . RT - PCR and western blot techniques were used to validate target gene expression . Cell invasion and apoptosis assays were also performed . RESULTS : In this article , we report the effects of altering RASSF1C expression in human breast cancer cells . We found that silencing RASSF1C mRNA in breast cancer cell lines ( MDA - MB231 and T47D ) caused a small but significant decrease in cell proliferation . Conversely , inducible over - expression of RASSF1C in breast cancer cells ( MDA - MB231 and T47D ) resulted in a small increase in cell proliferation . We also report on the identification of novel RASSF1C target genes . RASSF1C down - regulates several pro - apoptotic and tumor suppressor genes and up - regulates several growth promoting genes in breast cancer cells . We further show that down - regulation of caspase 3 via overexpression of RASSF1C reduces breast cancer cells ' sensitivity to the apoptosis inducing agent , etoposide . Furthermore , we found that RASSF1C over - expression enhances T47D cell invasion / migration in vitro . CONCLUSION : Together , our findings suggest that RASSF1C , unlike RASSF1A , is not a tumor suppressor , but instead may play a role in stimulating metastasis and survival in breast cancer cells . Androgen stimulates glycolysis for de novo lipid synthesis by increasing the activities of hexokinase 2 and 6 - phosphofructo - 2 - kinase / fructose - 2 , 6 - bisphosphatase 2 in prostate cancer cells . Up - regulation of lipogenesis by androgen is one of the most characteristic metabolic features of LNCaP prostate cancer cells . The present study revealed that androgen increases glucose utilization for de novo lipogenesis in LNCaP cells through the activation of HK2 ( hexokinase 2 ) and activation of the cardiac isoform of PFKFB2 ( 6 - phosphofructo - 2 - kinase / fructose - 2 , 6 - bisphosphatase ) . Activation of PKA ( cAMP - dependent protein kinase ) by androgen increased phosphorylation of CREB [ CRE ( cAMP - response element ) - binding protein ] , which in turn bound to CRE on the promoter of the HK2 gene resulting in transcriptional activation of the HK2 gene . Up - regulation of PFKFB2 expression was mediated by the direct binding of ligand - activated androgen receptor to the PFKFB2 promoter . The activated PI3K ( phosphoinositide 3 - kinase ) / Akt signalling pathway in LNCaP cells contributes to the phosphorylation of PFKFB2 at Ser466 and Ser483 , resulting in the constitutive activation of PFK - 2 ( 6 - phosphofructo - 2 - kinase ) activity . Glucose uptake and lipogenesis were severely blocked by knocking - down of PFKFB2 using siRNA ( small interfering RNA ) or by inhibition of PFK - 2 activity with LY294002 treatment . Taken together , our results suggest that the induction of de novo lipid synthesis by androgen requires the transcriptional up - regulation of HK2 and PFKFB2 , and phosphorylation of PFKFB2 generated by the PI3K / Akt signalling pathway to supply the source for lipogenesis from glucose in prostate cancer cells . Expression profiling in progressive stages of fumarate - hydratase deficiency : the contribution of metabolic changes to tumorigenesis . Hereditary leiomyomatosis and renal cell carcinoma ( HLRCC ) is caused by mutations in the Krebs cycle enzyme fumarate hydratase ( FH ) . It has been proposed that " pseudohypoxic " stabilization of hypoxia - inducible factor - alpha ( HIF - alpha ) by fumarate accumulation contributes to tumorigenesis in HLRCC . We hypothesized that an additional direct consequence of FH deficiency is the establishment of a biosynthetic milieu . To investigate this hypothesis , we isolated primary mouse embryonic fibroblast ( MEF ) lines from Fh1 - deficient mice . As predicted , these MEFs upregulated Hif - 1alpha and HIF target genes directly as a result of FH deficiency . In addition , detailed metabolic assessment of these MEFs confirmed their dependence on glycolysis , and an elevated rate of lactate efflux , associated with the upregulation of glycolytic enzymes known to be associated with tumorigenesis . Correspondingly , Fh1 - deficient benign murine renal cysts and an advanced human HLRCC - related renal cell carcinoma manifested a prominent and progressive increase in the expression of HIF - alpha target genes and in genes known to be relevant to tumorigenesis and metastasis . In accord with our hypothesis , in a variety of different FH - deficient tissues , including a novel murine model of Fh1 - deficient smooth muscle , we show a striking and progressive upregulation of a tumorigenic metabolic profile , as manifested by increased PKM2 and LDHA protein . Based on the models assessed herein , we infer that that FH deficiency compels cells to adopt an early , reversible , and progressive protumorigenic metabolic milieu that is reminiscent of that driving the Warburg effect . Targets identified in these novel and diverse FH - deficient models represent excellent potential candidates for further mechanistic investigation and therapeutic metabolic manipulation in tumors . Role of stromal myofibroblasts in invasive breast cancer : stromal expression of alpha - smooth muscle actin correlates with worse clinical outcome . BACKGROUND : Recently , the desmoplastic reaction has been implicated as having an important function in epithelial solid tumor biology . There have been no reports showing the relativity of invasive breast cancer and the desmoplastic reaction by a quantitative analysis of the myofibroblasts that were an important player in the desmoplastic reaction . The purpose of this study was to immunohistochemically investigate the correlation between the desmoplastic reaction and the clinicopathology of invasive breast cancer . METHODS : The study included 60 patients with a known prognosis of invasive breast cancer . We quantified the expression of alpha - SMA as a marker of myofibroblasts in the invasive breast cancer . After staining samples for alpha - SMA , their expression was extracted and quantified as a relative percentage by computer - assisted image analysis . RESULTS : There was relatively wide variation in the expression of alpha - SMA with the percentage of the area from 0 . 68 to 28 . 15 % ( mean 8 . 48 + / - 5 . 40 % ) . The metastasis group showed significantly higher alpha - SMA expression compared with the no metastasis group ( p < 0 . 001 ) . When the patients were divided into two groups according to their alpha - SMA expression using a cutoff point at the mean value of 8 . 48 % , the high alpha - SMA group had a significantly poorer overall survival rate ( p < 0 . 001 ) . Multivariate analysis demonstrated that alpha - SMA and lymph node metastasis were identified as independent predictive factors of metastasis . CONCLUSION : Myofibroblasts represent an important prognostic factor for invasive growth that is translated into a poor clinical prognosis for patients with invasive breast cancer . A STAT3 - mediated metabolic switch is involved in tumour transformation and STAT3 addiction . The pro - oncogenic transcription factor STAT3 is constitutively activated in a wide variety of tumours that often become addicted to its activity , but no unifying view of a core function determining this widespread STAT3 - dependence has yet emerged . We show here that constitutively active STAT3 acts as a master regulator of cell metabolism , inducing aerobic glycolysis and down - regulating mitochondrial activity both in primary fibroblasts and in STAT3 - dependent tumour cell lines . As a result , cells are protected from apoptosis and senescence while becoming highly sensitive to glucose deprivation . We show that enhanced glycolysis is dependent on HIF - 1alpha up - regulation , while reduced mitochondrial activity is HIF - 1alpha - independent and likely caused by STAT3 - mediated down - regulation of mitochondrial proteins . The induction of aerobic glycolysis is an important component of STAT3 pro - oncogenic activities , since inhibition of STAT3 tyrosine phosphorylation in the tumour cell lines down - regulates glycolysis prior to leading to growth arrest and cell death , both in vitro and in vivo . We propose that this novel , central metabolic role is at the core of the addiction for STAT3 shown by so many biologically different tumours . The disintegrin - like and cysteine - rich domains of ADAM - 9 mediate interactions between melanoma cells and fibroblasts . A characteristic of malignant cells is their capacity to invade their surrounding and to metastasize to distant organs . During these processes , proteolytic activities of tumor and stromal cells modify the extracellular matrix to produce a microenvironment suitable for their growth and migration . In recent years the family of ADAM proteases has been ascribed important roles in these processes . ADAM - 9 is expressed in human melanoma at the tumor - stroma border where direct or indirect interactions between tumor cells and fibroblasts occur . To analyze the role of ADAM - 9 for the interaction between melanoma cells and stromal fibroblasts , we produced the recombinant disintegrin - like and cysteine - rich domain of ADAM - 9 ( DC - 9 ) . Melanoma cells and human fibroblasts adhered to immobilized DC - 9 in a Mn ( 2 + ) - dependent fashion suggesting an integrin - mediated process . Inhibition studies showed that adhesion of fibroblasts was mediated by several beta1 integrin receptors independent of the RGD and ECD recognition motif . Furthermore , interaction of fibroblasts and high invasive melanoma cells with soluble recombinant DC - 9 resulted in enhanced expression of MMP - 1 and MMP - 2 . Silencing of ADAM - 9 in melanoma cells significantly reduced cell adhesion to fibroblasts . Ablation of ADAM - 9 in fibroblasts almost completely abolished these cellular interactions and melanoma cell invasion in vitro . In summary , these results suggest that ADAM - 9 expression plays an important role in mediating cell - cell contacts between fibroblasts and melanoma cells and that these interactions contribute to proteolytic activities required during invasion of melanoma cells . Influences on the pharmacokinetics of oxycodone : a multicentre cross - sectional study in 439 adult cancer patients . OBJECTIVE : Oxycodone is widely used for the treatment of cancer pain , but little is known of its pharmacokinetics in cancer pain patients . The aim of this study was to explore the relationships between ordinary patient characteristics and serum concentrations of oxycodone and the ratios noroxycodone or oxymorphone / oxycodone in cancer patients . METHODS : Four hundred and thirty - nine patients using oral oxycodone for cancer pain were included . The patients ' characteristics ( sex , age , body mass index [ BMI ] , Karnofsky performance status , " time since starting opioids " , " oxycodone total daily dose " , " time from last oxycodone dose " , use of CYP3A4 inducer / inhibitor , " use of systemic steroids " , " number of medications taken in the last 24 h " , glomerular filtration rate ( GFR ) and albumin serum concentrations ) influence on oxycodone serum concentrations or metabolite / oxycodone ratios were explored by multiple regression analyses . RESULTS : Sex , CYP3A4 inducers / inhibitors , total daily dose , and " time from last oxycodone dose " predicted oxycodone concentrations . CYP3A4 inducers , total daily dose , and " number of medications taken in the last 24 h " predicted the oxymorphone / oxycodone ratio . Total daily dose , " time from last dose to blood sample " , albumin , sex , CYP3A4 inducers / inhibitors , steroids , BMI and GFR predicted the noroxycodone / oxycodone ratio . CONCLUSION : Women had lower oxycodone serum concentrations than men . CYP3A4 inducers / inhibitors should be used with caution as these are predicted to have a significant impact on oxycodone pharmacokinetics . Other characteristics explained only minor parts of the variability of the outcomes . Emerging metabolic targets in cancer therapy . Cancer cells are different from normal cells in their metabolic properties . Normal cells mostly rely on mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation to produce energy . In contrast , cancer cells depend mostly on glycolysis , the aerobic breakdown of glucose into ATP . This altered energy dependency is known as the " Warburg effect " and is a hallmark of cancer cells . In recent years , investigating the metabolic changes within cancer cells has been a rapidly growing area . Emerging evidence shows that oncogenes that drive the cancer - promoting signals also drive the altered metabolism . Although the exact mechanisms underlying the Warburg effect are unclear , the existing evidence suggests that increased glycolysis plays an important role in support malignant behavior of cancer cells . A thorough understanding of the unique metabolism of cancer cells will help to design of more effective drugs targeting metabolic pathways , which will greatly impact the capacity to effectively treat cancer patients . Here we provide an overview of the current understanding of the Warburg effect upon tumor cell growth and survival , and discussion on the potential metabolic targets for cancer therapy . MTSS1 : a multifunctional protein and its role in cancer invasion and metastasis . MTSS1 ( metastasis suppressor - 1 ) was first identified as a metastasis suppressor missing in metastatic bladder carcinoma cell lines . The down - regulation of MTSS1 that may be caused by DNA methylation was also observed in many other types of cancer . While accumlating evidence for the function of MTSS1 support the concept that it is unlikely to be a metastasis suppressor , but actually acts as a scaffold protein that interacts with multiple partners to regulate actin dynamics . It has also been demonstrated that MTSS1 is involved in the Shh signaling pathway in the developing hair follicle and in basal cell carcinomas of the skin . Such evidence indicates that MTSS1 as a multiple functional molecular player and has an important role in development , carcinogenesis and metastasis . However , the biochemical mechanisms by which MTSS1 functions in cells and the physiological role of this protein in animals remain largely unknown . In this review , we will discuss the current knowledge of MTSS1 ' s role in cancer metastasis , carcinogenesis , and development . The clinical significance of MTSS1 will also be discussed . Geometric correlations and breakdown of mesoscopic universality in spin transport . We construct a unified semiclassical theory of charge and spin transport in chaotic ballistic and disordered diffusive mesoscopic systems with spin - orbit interaction . Neglecting dynamic effects of spin - orbit interaction , we reproduce the random matrix theory results that the spin conductance fluctuates universally around zero average . Incorporating these effects into the theory , we show that geometric correlations generate finite average spin conductances , but that they do not affect the charge conductance to leading order . The theory , which is confirmed by numerical transport calculations , allows us to investigate the entire range from the weak to the previously unexplored strong spin - orbit regime , where the spin rotation time is shorter than the momentum relaxation time . Development and validation of an approach to produce large - scale quantities of CpG - methylated plasmid DNA . The prokaryotic CpG - specific DNA methylase from Spiroplasma , SssI methylase , has been extensively used to methylate plasmid DNA in vitro to investigate the effects of methylation in vertebrate systems . Currently available methods to produce CpG - methylated plasmid DNA have certain limitations and cannot generate large quantities of methylated DNA without cost or problems of purity . Here we describe an approach in which the SssI methylase gene has been introduced into the Escherichia coli bacterial genome under the control of an inducible promoter . Plasmid DNA propagated in this bacterium under conditions which induce the methylase gene result in significant ( > 90 % ) CpG methylation . Methylated DNA produced by this approach behaves similarly to methylated DNA produced in vitro using the purified methylase . The approach is scalable allowing for the production of milligram quantities of methylated plasmid DNA . Dissecting genetic networks underlying complex phenotypes : the theoretical framework . Great progress has been made in genetic dissection of quantitative trait variation during the past two decades , but many studies still reveal only a small fraction of quantitative trait loci ( QTLs ) , and epistasis remains elusive . We integrate contemporary knowledge of signal transduction pathways with principles of quantitative and population genetics to characterize genetic networks underlying complex traits , using a model founded upon one - way functional dependency of downstream genes on upstream regulators ( the principle of hierarchy ) and mutual functional dependency among related genes ( functional genetic units , FGU ) . Both simulated and real data suggest that complementary epistasis contributes greatly to quantitative trait variation , and obscures the phenotypic effects of many ' downstream ' loci in pathways . The mathematical relationships between the main effects and epistatic effects of genes acting at different levels of signaling pathways were established using the quantitative and population genetic parameters . Both loss of function and " co - adapted " gene complexes formed by multiple alleles with differentiated functions ( effects ) are predicted to be frequent types of allelic diversity at loci that contribute to the genetic variation of complex traits in populations . Downstream FGUs appear to be more vulnerable to loss of function than their upstream regulators , but this vulnerability is apparently compensated by different FGUs of similar functions . Other predictions from the model may account for puzzling results regarding responses to selection , genotype by environment interaction , and the genetic basis of heterosis . Ras p21 onco - protein in the sera of mice carrying an experimentally induced tumor and in human cancer patients . We have established a model system to detect the presence of ras p21 in the sera of Balb / c mice carrying tumors induced by a mouse cell line transformed with the Harvey murine sarcoma virus in the presence of a helper Friend murine leukemia virus . As determined by ELISA and immunoblot assays , ras p21 in the serum increased with increased tumor growth . Since ras genes have been found to be frequently activated in human tumours , we examined the levels of ras p21 in the sera of a variety of human cancer patients . In only 3 out of 13 cases , representing patients with adenocarcinomas of the stomach receiving chemotherapy , was ras p21 detected at elevated levels , whereas in patients with the following types of cancer no substantial change in serum ras p21 was observed ; nine with breast , 5 colon , 5 lung , 5 ovarian and 5 hepatocellular carcinomas . Serum soluble vascular adhesion protein - 1 is a valuable prognostic marker in gastric cancer . BACKGROUND : Vascular adhesion protein - 1 ( VAP - 1 ) regulates leukocyte tissue infiltration . Elevated serum soluble VAP - 1 ( sVAP - 1 ) levels occur in certain diseases having an inflammatory component . We previously showed in colorectal cancer that sVAP - 1 expression is significantly higher relative to controls , and this decreased expression is associated with poor prognosis and lymph node and liver metastasis . However , sVAP - 1 expression has not been described for gastric cancer . This study determines the relationship between preoperative serum sVAP - 1 levels and clinicopathological features and prognosis in gastric cancer . METHODS : Preoperative serum was collected from 107 gastric cancer patients and 33 normal controls . sVAP - 1 levels were assayed by enzyme - linked immunosorbent assay . RESULTS : The mean sVAP - 1 level for cancer patients was significantly higher relative to controls , and decreased with disease progression . Tumor size , serosal invasion , lymph node metastasis , peritoneal dissemination , and TNM classification was significantly correlated with sVAP - 1 level . sVAP - 1 is also an independent predictive marker for lymph node metastasis . Patients having low sVAP - 1 levels had significantly poorer prognosis relative to patients having elevated sVAP - 1 in all or stages I - III gastric cancer patients , respectively . CONCLUSIONS : Low sVAP - 1 levels are associated with poor prognosis in gastric cancer . Determining sVAP - 1 levels may be valuable for predicting prognosis and lymph node metastasis . Diallyl trisulfide ( DATS ) inhibits mouse colon tumor in mouse CT - 26 cells allograft model in vivo . Our earlier studies showed that DATS induced apoptosis in human colon cancer HT29 and colo 205 cell lines in vitro . However , there is no report to show that DATS induced apoptosis in vitro and inhibited CT26 cancer cells in vivo on a murine allograft animal model . In vitro studies , the results indicated that DATS induced morphological changes and induction of apoptosis in CT26 cells . In vivo studies , CT26 cancer cells were implanted into BALB / c mice and groups of mice were treated with vehicle , DATS ( 10 and 50 mg / kg of body weight ) . DATS were injected once per four days intraperitoneally ( i . p . ) , with treatment starting 4 weeks prior to cells inoculation . Treatment with vehicle or with 10 and 50 mg / kg of DATS resulted in a reduction in tumor volume and weight . Tumor volume and total hemoglobin in allograft mice treated with 50 mg / kg DATS were significantly smaller than that in the control group . These findings indicated that DATS inhibits tumor growth in an allograft animal model . Thus , DATS may represent a colon cancer preventive agent and can be used in the future . Metabolic regulation by p53 . We are increasingly aware that cellular metabolism plays a vital role in diseases such as cancer , and that p53 is an important regulator of metabolic pathways . By transcriptional activation and other means , p53 is able to contribute to the regulation of glycolysis , oxidative phosphorylation , glutaminolysis , insulin sensitivity , nucleotide biosynthesis , mitochondrial integrity , fatty acid oxidation , antioxidant response , autophagy and mTOR signalling . The ability to positively and negatively regulate many of these pathways , combined with feedback signalling from these pathways to p53 , demonstrates the reciprocal and flexible nature of the regulation , facilitating a diverse range of responses to metabolic stress . Intriguingly , metabolic stress triggers primarily an adaptive ( rather than pro - apoptotic ) p53 response , and p53 is emerging as an important regulator of metabolic homeostasis . A better understanding of how p53 coordinates metabolic adaptation will facilitate the identification of novel therapeutic targets and will also illuminate the wider role of p53 in human biology . Use of DNA microarray and small animal positron emission tomography in preclinical drug evaluation of RAF265 , a novel B - Raf / VEGFR - 2 inhibitor . Positron emission tomography ( PET ) imaging has become a useful tool for assessing early biologic response to cancer therapy and may be particularly useful in the development of new cancer therapeutics . RAF265 , a novel B - Raf / vascular endothelial growth factor receptor - 2 inhibitor , was evaluated in the preclinical setting for its ability to inhibit the uptake of PET tracers in the A375M ( B - Raf ( V600E ) ) human melanoma cell line . RAF265 inhibited 2 - deoxy - 2 - [ ( 18 ) F ] fluoro - d - glucose ( FDG ) accumulation in cell culture at 28 hours in a dose - dependent manner . RAF265 also inhibited FDG accumulation in tumor xenografts after 1 day of drug treatment . This decrease persisted for the remaining 2 weeks of treatment . DNA microarray analysis of treated tumor xenografts revealed significantly decreased expression of genes regulating glucose and thymidine metabolism and revealed changes in apoptotic genes , suggesting that the imaging tracers FDG , 3 - deoxy - 3 - [ ( 18 ) F ] fluorothymidine , and annexin V could serve as potential imaging biomarkers for RAF265 therapy monitoring . We concluded that RAF265 is highly efficacious in this xenograft model of human melanoma and decreases glucose metabolism as measured by DNA microarray analysis , cell culture assays , and small animal FDG PET scans as early as 1 day after treatment . Our results support the use of FDG PET in clinical trials with RAF265 to assess early tumor response . DNA microarray analysis and small animal PET studies may be used as complementary technologies in drug development . DNA microarray analysis allows for analysis of drug effects on multiple pathways linked to cancer and can suggest corresponding imaging tracers for further analysis as biomarkers of tumor response . Predictive value of serum carbohydrate antigen 19 - 9 in malignant intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasms . BACKGROUND : The goal of the present study was to evaluate the predictive value of serum carbohydrate antigen 19 - 9 ( CA 19 - 9 ) in the diagnosis of malignant intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasms of pancreas ( IPMNs ) . METHODS : Eighty - six patients with pathological diagnosis of IPMNs in Zhongshan Hospital between March 1999 and November 2008 were retrospectively reviewed . Data reflecting clinical characteristics , tumor marker level , and prognosis were collected . The potential predictive value of CA 19 - 9 was analyzed by receiver operating characteristic ( ROC ) curve . RESULTS : Eighty - six consecutive patients with IPMNs all underwent surgical intervention . A high level of CA 19 - 9 or carcinoembryonic antigen ( CEA ) was associated with more advanced stage of malignant IPMNs . Carbohydrate antigen 19 - 9 was significant for judging malignant IPMNs in the binary logistic regression model ( p = 0 . 047 ) . The hazard ratio was 1 . 014 , whose 95 . 0 % confidence interval was 0 . 91 - 1 . 028 . Receiver operating characteristic analysis showed that the serum CA 19 - 9 level had good predictive value for malignant or invasive IPMNs , postoperative survival , and disease - specific recurrence . The area under the curve ( AUC ) was 0 . 856 , 0 . 893 , 0 . 815 , and 0 . 857 ( p < 0 . 05 ) , respectively . According to the follow - up , mean survival time for groups with CA 19 - 9 > 63 . 60 U / ml was dramatically shorter than that for groups with CA 19 - 9 < = 63 . 60 U / ml ( 57 . 38 + / - 2 . 85 versus 29 . 24 + / - 5 . 82 [ months ] ; p < 0 . 01 ) . CONCLUSIONS : Serum CA 19 - 9 level has good predictive value for malignant or invasive IPMNs . Patients with CA 19 - 9 > 63 . 60 U / ml had poor postoperative prognosis in IPMNs . Preoperative abnormal serum CA 19 - 9 might be predictive for an aggressive surgical intervention in IPMNs . Saliva proteins of vector Culicoides modify structure and infectivity of bluetongue virus particles . Bluetongue virus ( BTV ) and epizootic haemorrhagic disease virus ( EHDV ) are related orbiviruses , transmitted between their ruminant hosts primarily by certain haematophagous midge vectors ( Culicoides spp . ) . The larger of the BTV outer - capsid proteins , ' VP2 ' , can be cleaved by proteases ( including trypsin or chymotrypsin ) , forming infectious subviral particles ( ISVP ) which have enhanced infectivity for adult Culicoides , or KC cells ( a cell - line derived from C . sonorensis ) . We demonstrate that VP2 present on purified virus particles from 3 different BTV strains can also be cleaved by treatment with saliva from adult Culicoides . The saliva proteins from C . sonorensis ( a competent BTV vector ) , cleaved BTV - VP2 more efficiently than those from C . nubeculosus ( a less competent / non - vector species ) . Electrophoresis and mass spectrometry identified a trypsin - like protease in C . sonorensis saliva , which was significantly reduced or absent from C . nubeculosus saliva . Incubating purified BTV - 1 with C . sonorensis saliva proteins also increased their infectivity for KC cells ~ 10 fold , while infectivity for BHK cells was reduced by 2 - 6 fold . Treatment of an ' eastern ' strain of EHDV - 2 with saliva proteins of either C . sonorensis or C . nubeculosus cleaved VP2 , but a ' western ' strain of EHDV - 2 remained unmodified . These results indicate that temperature , strain of virus and protein composition of Culicoides saliva ( particularly its protease content which is dependent upon vector species ) , can all play a significant role in the efficiency of VP2 cleavage , influencing virus infectivity . Saliva of several other arthropod species has previously been shown to increase transmission , infectivity and virulence of certain arboviruses , by modulating and / or suppressing the mammalian immune response . The findings presented here , however , demonstrate a novel mechanism by which proteases in Culicoides saliva can also directly modify the orbivirus particle structure , leading to increased infectivity specifically for Culicoides cells and , in turn , efficiency of transmission to the insect vector . Systematic proteomic analysis of human hepotacellular carcinoma cells reveals molecular pathways and networks involved in metastasis . Systematic proteomic studying of the mechanism of hepatocellular carcinoma ( HCC ) metastasis remains challenging . We performed comparative proteomic and pathway analysis of four human metastatic HCC cell lines to identify metastasis - associated proteins . These HCC cell lines had a similar genetic background but with an increasing potential of metastasis . Using a combination of two dimensional electrophoresis ( 2 - DE ) and MALDI - TOF mass spectrometry , a total of 125 proteins and their post - translational modification forms or isoforms were found to be differentially expressed in the cell lines . Among them , 29 were gradually up - regulated whereas 17 were down - regulated with increasing metastatic potential . Instead of a traditional single - gene readout , global bioinformatics analysis was carried out , which revealed that the glycolysis pathway was the most significantly enriched pathway . The heat shock proteins ( HSPs ) centered and NF - kappaB centered networks were also enriched in the result , which may imply the key function of inflaming on metastasis . Meanwhile , knockdown of HDGF , an up - regulated protein and a target of NF - kappaB , induced cell apoptosis in the metastatic HCC cells . This work provides a demonstration that a combination of bioinformatics and comparative proteomics can help in finding out potential biomarkers associated with HCC metastasis on the level of pathways . Roles of brca2 ( fancd1 ) in oocyte nuclear architecture , gametogenesis , gonad tumors , and genome stability in zebrafish . Mild mutations in BRCA2 ( FANCD1 ) cause Fanconi anemia ( FA ) when homozygous , while severe mutations cause common cancers including breast , ovarian , and prostate cancers when heterozygous . Here we report a zebrafish brca2 insertional mutant that shares phenotypes with human patients and identifies a novel brca2 function in oogenesis . Experiments showed that mutant embryos and mutant cells in culture experienced genome instability , as do cells in FA patients . In wild - type zebrafish , meiotic cells expressed brca2 ; and , unexpectedly , transcripts in oocytes localized asymmetrically to the animal pole . In juvenile brca2 mutants , oocytes failed to progress through meiosis , leading to female - to - male sex reversal . Adult mutants became sterile males due to the meiotic arrest of spermatocytes , which then died by apoptosis , followed by neoplastic proliferation of gonad somatic cells that was similar to neoplasia observed in ageing dead end ( dnd ) - knockdown males , which lack germ cells . The construction of animals doubly mutant for brca2 and the apoptotic gene tp53 ( p53 ) rescued brca2 - dependent sex reversal . Double mutants developed oocytes and became sterile females that produced only aberrant embryos and showed elevated risk for invasive ovarian tumors . Oocytes in double - mutant females showed normal localization of brca2 and pou5f1 transcripts to the animal pole and vasa transcripts to the vegetal pole , but had a polarized rather than symmetrical nucleus with the distribution of nucleoli and chromosomes to opposite nuclear poles ; this result revealed a novel role for Brca2 in establishing or maintaining oocyte nuclear architecture . Mutating tp53 did not rescue the infertility phenotype in brca2 mutant males , suggesting that brca2 plays an essential role in zebrafish spermatogenesis . Overall , this work verified zebrafish as a model for the role of Brca2 in human disease and uncovered a novel function of Brca2 in vertebrate oocyte nuclear architecture . Induction of Id - 1 by FGF - 2 involves activity of EGR - 1 and sensitizes neuroblastoma cells to cell death . Inhibitor of differentiation - 1 ( Id - 1 ) is a member of helix - loop - helix ( HLH ) family of proteins that regulate gene transcription through their inhibitory binding to basic - HLH transcription factors . Similarly to other members of this family , Id - 1 is involved in the repression of cell differentiation and activation of cell growth . The dual function of Id - 1 , inhibition of differentiation , and stimulation of cell proliferation , might be interdependent , as cell differentiation is generally coupled with the exit from the cell cycle . Fibroblast growth factor - 2 ( FGF - 2 ) has been reported to play multiple roles in different biological processes during development of the central nervous system ( CNS ) . In addition , FGF - 2 has been described to induce " neuronal - like " differentiation and trigger apoptosis in neuroblastoma SK - N - MC cells . Although regulation of Id - 1 protein by several mitogenic factors is well - established , little is known about the role of FGF - 2 in the regulation of Id - 1 . Using human neuroblastoma cell line , SK - N - MC , we found that treatment of these cells with FGF - 2 resulted in early induction of both Id - 1 mRNA and protein . The induction occurs within 1 h from FGF - 2 treatment and is mediated by ERK1 / 2 pathway , which in turn stimulates expression of the early growth response - 1 ( Egr - 1 ) transcription factor . We also demonstrate direct interaction of Egr - 1 with Id - 1 promoter in vitro and in cell culture . Finally , inhibition of Id - 1 expression results in G ( 2 ) / M accumulation of FGF - 2 - treated cells and delayed cell death . Vimentin is preferentially expressed in human breast carcinomas with low estrogen receptor and high Ki - 67 growth fraction . Vimentin expression , growth fractions ( GF ) , and estrogen receptor ( ER ) levels were determined for 90 untreated primary breast carcinomas . Coexpression of keratin and vimentin was found in approximately 20 % of the tumors regardless of menopausal status . Vimentin was expressed preferentially in tumor cells of high - grade ductal breast carcinomas ( 15 of 28 histologic grade 3 vs . 0 of 40 grades 1 and 2 ) . Vimentin expression was found preferentially in tumors with high GF ( greater than 15 % Ki - 67 positive by immunoperoxidase staining ) and low ER levels ( less than 60 fmols / mg protein by a monoclonal enzyme immunoassay ) . Sixty - eight percent of tumors in this group were vimentin positive and 88 % of all vimentin - positive tumors fell into this category . More than 50 % of the tumor cells coexpressed vimentin and keratin . Thus , vimentin expression may be helpful in identifying a substantial subset of ER - independent breast carcinomas with poor prognostic indicators . High - mobility group A2 protein modulates hTERT transcription to promote tumorigenesis . The high - mobility group A2 gene ( HMGA2 ) is one of the most frequently amplified genes in human cancers . However , functions of HMGA2 in tumorigenesis are not fully understood due to limited knowledge of its targets in tumor cells . Our study reveals a novel link between HMGA2 and the regulation of human telomerase reverse transcriptase ( hTERT ) , the catalytic subunit of telomerase , which offers critical insight into how HMGA2 contributes to tumorigenesis . The expression of HMGA2 modulates the expression of hTERT , resulting in cells with enhanced telomerase activities and increased telomere length . Treatment with suberoylanilide hydroxamide ( SAHA ) , a histone deacetylase ( HDAC ) inhibitor , causes dose - dependent hTERT reporter activation , mimicking HMGA2 overexpression . By interacting with Sp1 , HMGA2 interferes with the recruitment of HDAC2 to the hTERT proximal promoter , enhancing localized histone H3 - K9 acetylation and thereby stimulating hTERT expression and telomerase activity . Moreover , HMGA2 knockdown by short hairpin HMGA2 in HepG2 cells leads to progressive telomere shortening and a concurrent decrease of steady - state hTERT mRNA levels , attenuating their ability to form colonies in soft agar . Importantly , HMGA2 partially replaces the function of hTERT during the tumorigenic transformation of normal human fibroblasts . These findings are potentially clinically relevant , because HMGA2 expression is reported to be upregulated in a number of human cancers as telomere maintenance is essential for tumorigenesis . 3 - [ ( Methyl - carbamo - yl ) amino ] - 1H - isoindolium chloride . The title compound , C ( 10 ) H ( 12 ) N ( 3 ) O ( + ) . Cl ( - ) , is a derivative of o - phthaldehyde and methyl - thio - urea . The mol - ecules form dimers through intra - and inter - molecular N - H . . . O hydrogen bonds . The dimers are further linked into chains through one C - H . . . Cl and two N - H . . . Cl hydrogen bonds . mirAct : a web tool for evaluating microRNA activity based on gene expression data . MicroRNAs ( miRNAs ) are critical regulators in the complex cellular networks . The mirAct web server ( http : / / sysbio . ustc . edu . cn / software / mirAct ) is a tool designed to investigate miRNA activity based on gene - expression data by using the negative regulation relationship between miRNAs and their target genes . mirAct supports multiple - class data and enables clustering analysis based on computationally determined miRNA activity . Here , we describe the framework of mirAct , demonstrate its performance by comparing with other similar programs and exemplify its applications using case studies . Non - heart - beating organ donation in Italy . In 2007 the non - heart - beating organ donation ( NHBD ) " Programma Alba " ( Sunrise Programme ) started in Pavia , Italy . The initial plan was to cut down waiting list for kidney transplantation , while its final aim is to shorten organ transplantation waiting lists . When compared to European countries and the USA , the Italian NHBD program has taken longer to get established . Initially Italian physicians were not entirely aware of the NHBD organ viability for transplantation , furthermore ethical issues and the need to regulate medical requirements to Italian law slowed down the NHBD program . In particular , Italian legislation provides for death ascertainment after irreversible cardiac arrest , 20 - minute flat electrocardiogram . This no - touch period is longer when compared to worldwide legislation , and organ viability has been a main concern for Italian transplant doctors over the years . However , recent data let up to 40 - minute warm ischemia time to preserve organ viability ; this has encouraged Pavia ' s group to establish the NHBD " Programma Alba " . It was designed according to Italian legislation from death diagnosis to graft placement , from this perspective must the significant role of the Transplant coordinator be recognized . Since 2007 seven kidneys have been gathered from seven NHBD . Of these , six NHBD kidneys have been transplanted . Currently , four patients are out of dialysis . This report is a detailed description of NHBD " Programma Alba " and its preliminary results . KISS1 methylation and expression as tumor stratification biomarkers and clinical outcome prognosticators for bladder cancer patients . KISS1 is a metastasis suppressor gene that is lost in several malignancies , including bladder cancer . We tested the epigenetic silencing hypothesis and evaluated the biological influence of KISS1 methylation on its expression and clinical relevance in bladder cancer . KISS1 hypermethylation was frequent in bladder cancer cells analyzed by methylation - specific PCR and bisulfite sequencing and was associated with low gene expression , being restored in vitro by demethylating azacytidine . Hypermethylation was also frequently observed in a large series of bladder tumors ( 83 . 1 % , n = 804 ) . KISS1 methylation was associated with increasing stage ( P = 0 . 001 ) and tumor grade ( P = 0 . 010 ) . KISS1 methylation was associated with low KISS1 transcript expression by quantitative RT - PCR ( P = 0 . 037 ) . KISS1 transcript expression was also associated with histopathological tumor stage ( P < 0 . 0005 ) . Low transcript expression alone ( P = 0 . 003 ) or combined with methylation ( P = 0 . 019 ) was associated with poor disease - specific survival ( n = 205 ) . KISS1 transcript expression remained an independent prognosticator in multivariate analyses ( P = 0 . 017 ) . KISS1 hypermethylation was identified in bladder cancer , providing a potential mechanistic explanation ( epigenetic silencing ) for the observed loss of KISS1 in uroepithelial malignancies . Associations of KISS1 methylation and its expression with histopathological variables and poor survival suggest the utility of incorporating KISS1 measurement using paraffin - embedded material for tumor stratification and clinical outcome prognosis of patients with uroepithelial neoplasias . Oscillatory alpha - band mechanisms and the deployment of spatial attention to anticipated auditory and visual target locations : supramodal or sensory - specific control mechanisms ? Oscillatory alpha - band activity ( 8 - 15 Hz ) over parieto - occipital cortex in humans plays an important role in suppression of processing for inputs at to - be - ignored regions of space , with increased alpha - band power observed over cortex contralateral to locations expected to contain distractors . It is unclear whether similar processes operate during deployment of spatial attention in other sensory modalities . Evidence from lesion patients suggests that parietal regions house supramodal representations of space . The parietal lobes are prominent generators of alpha oscillations , raising the possibility that alpha is a neural signature of supramodal spatial attention . Furthermore , when spatial attention is deployed within vision , processing of task - irrelevant auditory inputs at attended locations is also enhanced , pointing to automatic links between spatial deployments across senses . Here , we asked whether lateralized alpha - band activity is also evident in a purely auditory spatial - cueing task and whether it had the same underlying generator configuration as in a purely visuospatial task . If common to both sensory systems , this would provide strong support for " supramodal " attention theory . Alternately , alpha - band differences between auditory and visual tasks would support a sensory - specific account . Lateralized shifts in alpha - band activity were indeed observed during a purely auditory spatial task . Crucially , there were clear differences in scalp topographies of this alpha activity depending on the sensory system within which spatial attention was deployed . Findings suggest that parietally generated alpha - band mechanisms are central to attentional deployments across modalities but that they are invoked in a sensory - specific manner . The data support an " interactivity account , " whereby a supramodal system interacts with sensory - specific control systems during deployment of spatial attention . [ Expression of Merlin protein in non - small cell lung carcinoma and the clinical significance ] . OBJECTIVE : To determine the expression and clinical significance of Merlin protein in non - small cell lung cancer ( NSCLC ) . METHODS : The expression of Merlin protein in 45 cases of NSCLC and adjacent tissue of NSCLC and normal lung tissue was checked by immunohistochemistry . The relation between the expression of Merlin protein and the multiple factors of pathological type , gender , P - TNM stage , differentiation and lymph node metastasis was analyzed . RESULTS : The expression rates of Merlin protein in NSCLC and normal lung tissue sections were 73 . 33 % and 15 . 56 % , respectively ( P < 0 . 05 ) . The expression of Merlin protein was not associated with the pathological type , gender , P - TNM stage , differentiation and lymph node metastasis ( P > 0 . 05 ) . CONCLUSION : Merlin protein might contribute to the initiation of metastasis of NSCLC . The members of an Epstein - Barr virus microRNA cluster cooperate to transform B lymphocytes . Epstein - Barr virus ( EBV ) transforms B lymphocytes through the expression of the latent viral proteins EBNA and latent membrane protein ( LMP ) . Recently , it has become apparent that microRNAs ( miRNAs ) also contribute to EBV ' s oncogenic properties ; recombinant EBVs that lack the BHRF1 miRNA cluster display a reduced ability to transform B lymphocytes in vitro . Furthermore , infected cells evince a marked upregulation of the EBNA genes . Using recombinant viruses that lack only one member of the cluster , we now show that all three BHRF1 miRNAs contribute to B - cell transformation . Recombinants that lacked miR - BHRF1 - 2 or miR - BHRF1 - 3 displayed enhanced EBNA expression initiated at the Cp and Wp promoters . Interestingly , we find that the deletion of miR - BHRF1 - 2 reduced the expression level of miR - BHRF1 - 3 and possibly that of miR - BHRF1 - 1 , demonstrating that the expression of one miRNA can potentiate the expression of other miRNAs located in the same cluster . Therefore , the phenotypic traits of the miR - BHRF1 - 2 null mutant could result partly from reduced miR - BHRF1 - 1 and miR - BHRF1 - 3 expression levels . Nevertheless , using an miR - BHRF1 - 1 and miR - BHRF1 - 3 double mutant , we could directly assess and confirm the contribution of miR - BHRF1 - 2 to B - cell transformation . Furthermore , we found that the potentiating effect of miR - BHRF1 - 2 on miR - BHRF1 - 3 synthesis can be reproduced with simple expression plasmids , provided that both miRNAs are processed from the same transcript . Therefore , this enhancing effect does not result from an idiosyncrasy of the EBV genome but rather reflects a general property of these miRNAs . This study highlights the advantages of arranging the BHRF1 miRNAs in clusters : it allows the synchronous and synergistic expression of genetic elements that cooperate to transform their target cells . Hedgehog signaling : networking to nurture a promalignant tumor microenvironment . In addition to its role in embryonic development , the Hedgehog pathway has been shown to be an active participant in cancer development , progression , and metastasis . Although this pathway is activated by autocrine signaling by Hedgehog ligands , it can also initiate paracrine signaling with cells in the microenvironment . This creates a network of Hedgehog signaling that determines the malignant behavior of the tumor cells . As a result of paracrine signal transmission , the effects of Hedgehog signaling most profoundly influence the stromal cells that constitute the tumor microenvironment . The stromal cells in turn produce factors that nurture the tumor . Thus , such a resonating cross - talk can amplify Hedgehog signaling , resulting in molecular chatter that overall promotes tumor progression . Inhibitors of Hedgehog signaling have been the subject of intense research . Several of these inhibitors are currently being evaluated in clinical trials . Here , we review the role of the Hedgehog pathway in the signature characteristics of cancer cells that determine tumor development , progression , and metastasis . This review condenses the latest findings on the signaling pathways that are activated and / or regulated by molecules generated from Hedgehog signaling in cancer and cites promising clinical interventions . Finally , we discuss future directions for identifying the appropriate patients for therapy , developing reliable markers of efficacy of treatment , and combating resistance to Hedgehog pathway inhibitors . Analysis of molecular aberrations of Wnt pathway gladiators in colorectal cancer in the Kashmiri population . The development and progression of colorectal cancer ( CRC ) is a multi - step process , and the Wnt pathways with its two molecular gladiators adenomatous polyposis coli ( APC ) and beta - catenin plays an important role in transforming a normal tissue into a malignant one . In this study , we aimed to investigate the role of aberrations in the APC and beta - catenin genes in the pathogenesis of CRC in the Kashmir valley , and to correlate it with various clinicopathological variables . We examined the paired tumour and normal - tissue specimens of 86 CRC patients for the occurrence of aberrations in the mutation cluster region ( MCR ) of the APC gene and exon 3 of the beta - catenin gene by polymerase chain reaction - single - strand conformation polymorphism ( PCR - SSCP ) and / or PCR - direct sequencing . Analysis of promoter hypermethylation of the APC gene was also carried out using methylation - specific PCR ( MS - PCR ) . The overall mutation rate of the MCR of the APC gene among 86 CRC cases was 12 . 8 per cent ( 11 of 86 ) . Promoter hypermethylation of APC was observed in 54 . 65 per cent ( 47 of 86 ) of cases . Furthermore , we found a significant association between tumour location , tumour grade and node status and the methylation status of the APC gene ( p < = 0 . 05 ) . Although the number of mutations in the APC and beta - catenin genes in our CRC cases was very low , the study confirms the role of epigenetic gene silencing of the pivotal molecular gladiator , APC , of the Wnt pathway in the development of CRC in the Kashmiri population . Massive osteolysis in a dog resembling Gorham ' s disease in humans . An eight - month - old mixed - breed dog was presented with a history of sudden onset pelvic limb lameness . Radiographic and computed tomographic examinations demonstrated an osteolytic process involving the lumbar spine and pelvis . A comprehensive work - up including serial radiographic skeletal survey , biopsy , routine laboratory investigation and evaluation of parathyroid hormone ( PTH ) and 25 - hydroxy - vitamin D levels failed to reveal any underlying cause for the osteolysis . Conservative treatment using the bisphosphonate drug alendronate and oral analgesic medications resulted in a return to nearly normal long - term function , despite massive lumbar and pelvic osteolysis . The clinical , radiological and histopathological features in this dog are reported , and similarities with the human condition known as Gorham ' s disease are discussed . Correlation of lymphatic vessel density and vascular endothelial growth factor with nodal metastasis in papillary thyroid microcarcinoma . BACKGROUND : The aim of this study was to investigate not only the intratumoral and peritumoral lymphatic vessel density ( ILD and PLD ) but also the expression of vascular endothelial growth factors ( VEGFs ) and to test their correlation with regional lymph nodal metastases in papillary thyroid microcarcinoma ( PTMC ) . METHODS : A clinicopathologic data review was performed in 60 patients with PTMC treated with total thyroidectomies involving neck dissections . The patterns of lymphatic vessels , the expression of VEGFs , and their correlation with neck metastases were assessed . RESULTS : PLD was significantly higher than ILD ( p < . 001 ) . Patients with high PLD ( > 8 . 0 ) showed higher rates of neck metastases than low PLD ( < = 8 . 0 ) ( 74 . 0 % vs 46 . 8 % , p = . 03 ) . Univariate and multivariate analyses revealed high PLD as the only independent variable predictive of neck metastasis . The expression of VEGFs did not correlate with either lymphatic density or neck metastasis . CONCLUSIONS : PLD may be of potential benefit in the prediction of neck metastasis in PTMC . Inhibition of autophagy potentiates the antitumor effect of the multikinase inhibitor sorafenib in hepatocellular carcinoma . Multikinase inhibitor sorafenib inhibits proliferation and angiogenesis of tumors by suppressing the Raf / MEK / ERK signaling pathway and VEGF receptor tyrosine kinase . It significantly prolongs median survival of patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma ( HCC ) but the response is disease - stabilizing and cytostatic rather than one of tumor regression . To examine the mechanisms underlying the relative resistance in HCC , we investigated the role of autophagy , an evolutionarily conserved self - digestion pathway , in hepatoma cells in vitro and in vivo . Sorafenib treatment led to accumulation of autophagosomes as evidenced by conversion from LC3 - I to LC3 - II observed by immunoblot in Huh7 , HLF and PLC / PRF / 5 cells . This induction was due to activation of autophagic flux , as there was further increase in LC3 - II expression upon treatment with lysosomal inhibitors , clear decline of the autophagy substrate p62 , and an mRFP - GFP - LC3 fluorescence change in sorafenib - treated hepatoma cells . Sorafenib inhibited the mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1 and its inhibition led to accumulation of LC3 - II . Pharmacological inhibition of autophagic flux by chloroquine increased apoptosis and decreased cell viability in hepatoma cells . siRNA - mediated knockdown of the ATG7 gene also sensitized hepatoma cells to sorafenib . Finally , sorafenib induced autophagy in Huh7 xenograft tumors in nude mice and coadministration with chloroquine significantly suppressed tumor growth compared with sorafenib alone . In conclusion , sorafenib administration induced autophagosome formation and enhanced autophagic activity , which conferred a survival advantage to hepatoma cells . Concomitant inhibition of autophagy may be an attractive strategy for unlocking the antitumor potential of sorafenib in HCC . Desensitization of prostaglandin F2 alpha - stimulated inositol phosphate generation in NIH - 3T3 fibroblasts transformed by overexpression of normal c - Ha - ras - 1 , c - Ki - ras - 2 and c - N - ras genes . The stimulation of inositol phosphate generation in control and ras - gene - transformed NIH - 3T3 cells by prostaglandin F2 alpha ( PGF2 alpha ) was investigated . Compared with the control cells , a desensitization of the response was observed in cells transformed by the overexpression of N - , Ha - , or Ki - ras genes . This desensitization was without effect upon the concentration causing half - maximal effect ( EC50 ) , dissociation constant ( Kd ) or number of PGF2 alpha receptors . Inhibition of PG synthesis was without effect upon desensitization , demonstrating that the effect was not agonist - induced . Desensitization could be induced in NIH - 3T3 cells by culturing under conditions where the cells were all in the exponential growth phase , or by a 12 h exposure to a C - kinase - activating phorbol ester . These results suggest that desensitization of certain agonist - induced inositol phospholipid responses in ras - transformed cells is a consequence of increased cell proliferation and associated amplification in C - kinase activity and is an indirect consequence of transformation by ras . Sunitinib induces apoptosis in pheochromocytoma tumor cells by inhibiting VEGFR2 / Akt / mTOR / S6K1 pathways through modulation of Bcl - 2 and BAD . Sunitinib is an oral multitargeted receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor with antiangiogenic and antitumor activity that mainly targets vascular endothelial growth factor receptors ( VEGFRs ) . Very recently , sunitinib has been shown to be an active agent for the treatment of malignant pheochromocytomas . However , it is unclear whether sunitinib acts only through an antiangiogenic mechanism or whether it may also directly target tumor cells . Sunitinib markedly induced apoptosis of PC12 cells in a dose - dependent and time - dependent manner . Furthermore , in support of these findings , we found that sunitinib induced a reduction in the expression of the antiapoptotic molecule Bcl - 2 as well as dephosphorylation of the proapoptotic molecule BAD , which results in the activation of BAD in these cells . Consistent with these apoptotic effects , our results showed that sunitinib inhibited phosphorylation of Akt and mTOR and was followed by a reduction of S6K1 , which is a well - known target of mTOR . Knockdown of VEGFR - 2 attenuated the sunitinib - induced effects , including apoptosis and inhibition of signaling pathways such as the phosphorylation of Akt as well as mTOR , and Bcl - 2 , which confirmed that these effects could be mediated by VEGFR - 2 . In addition , silencing of S6K1 induced apoptosis accompanied by a decrease in the phosphorylation of BAD and Bcl - 2 , similar to that observed with sunitinib treatment . Thus , these results together suggest that sunitinib initially exerts its apoptotic effect through the inhibition of VEGFR - 2 , which , when followed by reduction of its downstream effectors , including Akt / mTOR / S6K1 , may lead to inhibition of the antiapoptotic molecule Bcl - 2 and activation of the proapoptotic molecule BAD in PC12 cells . However , PC12 cells do not precisely reflect the pathogenesis of malignant cells . Therefore , we confirmed the key findings by replicating these experiments in human neuroblastoma SK - N - SH cells . Development of a mouse model for lymph node metastasis with endometrial cancer . Controlling lymph node metastasis is currently a key issue in cancer therapy . Lymph node metastasis is one of the most important prognostic factors in various types of cancers , including endometrial cancer . Vascular endothelial growth factor - C ( VEGF - C ) plays a crucial role in lymphangiogenesis , and is implicated to play an important role in lymph node metastasis . To evaluate the role of VEGF - C in lymph node metastasis , we developed an animal model by using an endometrial cancer cell line , HEC1A . This cell line is not invasive by nature and secretes moderate amounts of VEGF - C ; intrauterine injection of HEC1A cells into Balb / c nude mice resulted in uterine cancer with lymph node metastasis after 8 weeks . To analyze the contribution of VEGF - C to lymph node metastasis , its corresponding gene was stably introduced into HEC1A cells ( HEC1A / VEGF - C ) , which then produced more than 10 times the amount of VEGF - C . The number of lymph node metastases was significantly higher in HEC1A / VEGF - C cells than in HEC1A cells ( 3 . 2 vs 1 . 1 nodes / animal , respectively ) . Augmented lymphangiogenesis was observed within tumors when HEC1A / VEGF - C cells were inoculated . These results indicate that VEGF - C plays a critical role in lymph node metastasis , in addition to serving as a platform to test the efficacy of various therapeutic modalities against lymph node metastasis . [ Rubella in Poland in 2009 ] . In Poland , 7 , 587 cases of rubella were registered in 2009 ( incidence 19 . 9 per 100 , 000 population ) . According to a new rubella case definition , introduced in 2009 , 7 ( 0 . 1 % ) cases were classified as confirmed cases , 30 ( 0 . 4 % ) as probable . One case of congenital rubella syndrome was reported . The incidence in men ( 26 . 6 ) was 1 . 9 - times higher than in women ( 13 . 6 ) . The highest incidence was observed in children aged 7 and 8 years ( 180 . 3 and 175 . 6 , respectively ) . No rubella deaths were registered . An improvement of laboratory diagnosis of reported cases is necessary to assess the impact of 2 - dose immunization implemented in 2003 on rubella epidemiology in Poland . Burns from hot wheat bags : a public safety issue . Introduction : Wheat bags are therapeutic devices that are heated in microwaves and commonly used to provide relief from muscle and joint pain . The Royal Adelaide Hospital Burns Unit has observed a number of patients with significant burn injuries resulting from their use . Despite their dangers , the products come with limited safety information . Methods : Data were collected from the Burns Unit database for all patients admitted with burns due to hot wheat bags from 2004 to 2009 . This was analyzed to determine the severity of the burn injury and identify any predisposing factors . An experimental study was performed to measure the temperature of wheat bags when heated to determine their potential for causing thermal injury . Results : 11 patients were admitted with burns due to hot wheat bags . The median age was 52 years and the mean total body surface area was 1 . 1 % . All burns were either deep dermal ( 45 . 5 % ) or full thickness ( 54 . 5 % ) . Ten patients required operative management . Predisposing factors ( eg , neuropathy ) to thermal injury were identified in 7 patients . The experimental study showed that hot wheat bags reached temperatures of 57 . 3degreesC ( 135 . 1degreesF ) when heated according to instructions , 63 . 3degreesC ( 145 . 9degreesF ) in a 1000 W microwave and 69 . 6degreesC ( 157 . 3degreesF ) on reheating . Conclusions : Hot wheat bags cause serious burn injury . When heated improperly , they can reach temperatures high enough to cause epidermal necrosis in a short period of time . Patients with impaired temperature sensation are particularly at risk . There should be greater public awareness of the dangers of wheat bag use and more specific safety warnings on the products . IL - 17F deficiency inhibits small intestinal tumorigenesis in ApcMin / + mice . IL - 17 plays an important role in gut homeostasis . However , the role of IL - 17F in intestinal tumorigenesis has not been addressed . Here we demonstrate that ablation of IL - 17F significantly inhibits spontaneous intestinal tumorigenesis in the small intestine of Apc ( Min / + ) mice . IL - 17F ablation decreased IL - 1beta and Cox - 2 expression as well as IL - 17 receptor C ( IL - 17RC ) expression , which were increased in tumors from Apc ( Min / + ) mice . Lack of IL - 17F did not reverse the splenomegaly but partially restored thymic atrophy , suggesting a local effect of IL - 17F in the intestine . IL - 17F deficient Apc ( Min / + ) mice showed a significant decrease in immune cell infiltration in the lamina propria . Interestingly , the expression of IL - 17A from CD4 T cells in the lamina propria remains unchanged in the absence of IL - 17F . Collectively , our results suggest the proinflammatory and essential role of IL - 17F to develop spontaneous intestinal tumorigenesis in Apc ( Min / + ) mice in the presence of IL - 17A . Curcumin inhibits metastatic progression of breast cancer cell through suppression of urokinase - type plasminogen activator by NF - kappa B signaling pathways . Curcumin ( 1 , 7 - bis ( 4 - hydroxy - 3 - methoxyphenyl ) - 1 , 6 - heptadiene - 3 , 5 - dione ) , is extracted from the plant Curcuma longa . It was recently reported for its anticancer effect on several types of cancer cells in vitro however , the molecular mechanisms of this anticancer effect are not fully understood . In the present study , we evaluated the effects of curcumin on human mammary epithelial carcinoma MCF - 7 cells . Cells were treated with curcumin and examined for cell viability by MTT assay . The cells invasion was demonstrated by transwell assay . The binding activity of NF - kappaB to DNA was examined in nuclear extracts using Trans - AM NF - kappaB ELISA kit . Western blot was performed to detect the effect of curcumin on the expression of uPA . Our results showed that curcumin dose - dependently inhibited ( P < 0 . 05 ) the proliferation of MCF - 7 cells . Meanwhile , the adhesion and invasion ability of MCF - 7 cells were sharply inhibited when treated with different concentrations of curcumin . Curcumin also significantly decreased ( P < 0 . 05 ) the expression of uPA and NF - kappaB DNA binding activity , respectively . It is concluded that curcumin inhibits the adhesion and invasion of MCF - 7 cells through down - regulating the protein expression of uPA via of NF - kappaB activation . Accordingly , the therapeutic potential of curcumin for breast cancer deserves further study . Aglycon of rhizochalin from the Rhizochalina incrustata induces apoptosis via activation of AMP - activated protein kinase in HT - 29 colon cancer cells . Rhizochalin is a two - headed sphingolipid - like compound isolated from the sponge Rhizochalina incrustata . It has been reported that rhizocalin and its derivates have a chemopreventive and chemotherapeutic effect . However , the molecular mechanism of these effects is not understood . Here , we demonstrate that aglycon of rhizochalin ( AglRhz ) from the Rhizochalina incrustata induces AMP - activated protein kinase ( AMPK ) phosphorylation , and thereby inhibits mammalian target of rapamycin ( mTOR ) - p70S6 kinase - extracellular signal - regulated kinase ( ERK ) signaling and activator protein 1 ( AP - 1 ) activity via phosphorylation of Raptor in HT - 29 cells . In addition , AglRhz induced activation of caspase - 3 and poly ( ADP - ribose ) polymerase ( PARP ) , and DNA fragmentation in HT - 29 cells , leads to induction of apoptosis as well as suppression of tumorigenicity of HT - 29 cells . Notably , AglRhz inhibits insulin - like growth factor ( IGF ) - 1 - induced AP - 1 activity and cell transformation in JB6 Cl41 cells . Overall , our findings identify AMPK as an important target protein for mediating the anti - tumor properties of AglRhz in HT - 29 colon cancer cells and have important implication for sponges , the most important marine source , in colon cancer . Expression of thymidylate synthase and dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase in primary oral squamous cell carcinoma and corresponding metastases in cervical lymph nodes : association with the metastasis suppressor CD82 . Thymidylate synthase ( TS ) and dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase ( DPD ) are 5 - fluorouracil ( 5 - FU ) metabolizing enzymes and are involved in the sensitivity of carcinoma patients to 5 - FU . Although 5 - FU is often used for the treatment of oral carcinoma , there has not been any investigation into the expression of these enzymes in metastatic lymph nodes or of their roles in the effectiveness of 5 - FU in treating lymph node - metastatic cancer . Oral squamous cell carcinoma ( OSCC ) often metastasizes to the lymph nodes , and these enzymes may be significant in the survival of patients with this disease . This study investigated the expression of TS and DPD in cervical lymph node metastases and its relationship with primary OSCC , as well as the interaction between these enzymes and Kangai 1 ( KAI1 / CD82 ) which is a metastasis suppressor protein . Surgical specimens from 20 cases of OSCC with lymph node metastasis , 20 cases of OSCC without lymph node metastasis , and 10 cases of normal mucosa were examined by immunohistochemistry . The relationship between TS and DPD expression and clinicopathological data was analyzed . TS and DPD proteins were overexpressed in primary OSCC compared to that in normal mucosa . TS expression of the primary oral cancer cells in the group with lymph node metastasis was higher than that of those without . DPD expression did not significantly correlate with the occurrence of lymph node metastasis , nor was it different between primary oral cancer cells and cervical metastases . CD82 expression was significantly reduced in lymph node metastases . These findings indicate that TS and CD82 may be of great value in assessing lymph node metastasis of OSCC , and could be taken as new targets for therapy of metastatic OSCC . c - MYC functions as a molecular switch to alter the response of human mammary epithelial cells to oncostatin M . Cytokines play an important role in creating an inflammatory microenvironment , which is now considered a hallmark of cancer . Although tumor cells can exploit cytokine signaling to promote growth , invasion , and metastasis , the response of normal and premalignant epithelial cells to cytokines present in a developing tumor microenvironment remains unclear . Oncostatin M ( OSM ) , an IL - 6 family cytokine responsible for STAT3 activation , has been implicated in cancer development , progression , invasion , and metastasis . Paradoxically , OSM can also suppress the growth of normal cells and certain tumor - derived cell lines . Using isogenic human mammary epithelial cells ( HMEC ) at different stages of neoplastic transformation , we found that OSM signaling suppressed c - MYC expression and engaged a p16 - and p53 - independent growth arrest that required STAT3 activity . Inhibition of STAT3 activation by expressing a dominant - negative STAT3 protein or a STAT3 - shRNA prevented the OSM - mediated arrest . In addition , expression of c - MYC from a constitutive promoter also abrogated the STAT3 - mediated arrest , and strikingly , cooperated with OSM to promote anchorage - independent growth ( AIG ) , a property associated with malignant transformation . Cooperative transformation by c - MYC and OSM required PI3K and AKT signaling , showing the importance of multiple signaling pathways downstream of the OSM receptor in defining the cellular response to cytokines . These findings identify c - MYC as an important molecular switch that alters the cellular response to OSM - mediated signaling from tumor suppressive to tumor promoting . PTHrP drives breast tumor initiation , progression , and metastasis in mice and is a potential therapy target . Parathyroid hormone - related protein ( PTHrP ) is a secreted factor expressed in almost all normal fetal and adult tissues . It is involved in a wide range of developmental and physiological processes , including serum calcium regulation . PTHrP is also associated with the progression of skeletal metastases , and its dysregulated expression in advanced cancers causes malignancy - associated hypercalcemia . Although PTHrP is frequently expressed by breast tumors and other solid cancers , its effects on tumor progression are unclear . Here , we demonstrate in mice pleiotropic involvement of PTHrP in key steps of breast cancer - it influences the initiation and progression of primary tumors and metastases . Pthrp ablation in the mammary epithelium of the PyMT - MMTV breast cancer mouse model caused a delay in primary tumor initiation , inhibited tumor progression , and reduced metastasis to distal sites . Mechanistically , it reduced expression of molecular markers of cell proliferation ( Ki67 ) and angiogenesis ( factor VIII ) , antiapoptotic factor Bcl - 2 , cell - cycle progression regulator cyclin D1 , and survival factor AKT1 . PTHrP also influenced expression of the adhesion factor CXCR4 , and coexpression of PTHrP and CXCR4 was crucial for metastatic spread . Importantly , PTHrP - specific neutralizing antibodies slowed the progression and metastasis of human breast cancer xenografts . Our data identify what we believe to be new functions for PTHrP in several key steps of breast cancer and suggest that PTHrP may constitute a novel target for therapeutic intervention . Aquaporins in human breast cancer : identification and involvement in carcinogenesis of breast cancer . BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES : Aquaporins ( AQPs ) play important roles in water and glycerol transport . Recently , the role of AQPs in human carcinogenesis has become an area of great interest . However , little is known about the function of AQPs in human breast cancer . The aim of this study was to investigate the expression profile of AQPs in human breast cancer and its significance . METHODS : In this study , we screened the expression profile of AQP0 - 12 in breast cancer tissues and corresponding normal tissues by RT - PCR , Western blotting and immunohistochemistry . RESULTS : AQP1 , 3 - 5 , and 10 - 12 were expressed in human breast cancer and / or normal breast tissues , and AQP1 and 3 - 5 exhibited differential expression . AQP1 was expressed in cell membranes and its expression was higher in cancer than that in normal tissues . AQP4 was expressed in the cell membrane and cytoplasm and was detected markedly stronger in normal than in cancer tissues . AQP5 was expressed mainly in cell membranes in carcinoma tissues , but was almost absent in normal breast tissues . Expression of AQP5 was associated with cellular differentiation , lymph node invasion , and clinicopathological staging . CONCLUSIONS : These observations suggested that several subtypes of the AQP family play a role in human breast carcinogenesis . Absence of antisperm antibodies in anejaculatory men . Antisperm antibodies were assessed in the serum samples of 73 men unable to ejaculate naturally and on the sperm cells of 13 of these men . None of the serum samples were found to be positive by sperm agglutination or sperm immobilization methods and antibodies were detected by an immunobead assay on the sperm cells of one of the 13 men examined . Research and discovery of the first human cancer virus , HTLV - 1 . Human T - cell lymphoma virus ( HTLV ) - 1 was the first human retrovirus to be discovered . It has been recognized as the cause of adult T - cell leukemia ( ATL ) . In addition to giving a historical perspective on HTLV - 1 and other retrovirus research , this paper discusses the origin of HTLV - 1 ; the modes of transmission and global epidemiology of HTLV - 1 infection ; the genome of HTLV - 1 and the mechanism of HTLV - 1 - induced leukemogenesis ; the role of HTLV - 1 in other diseases , and recent breakthroughs in ATL therapy . Relationship between of blood flow , glucose metabolism , protein synthesis , glucose and ATP content in experimentally - induced glioma ( RG1 2 . 2 ) of rat brain . In experimental RG1 2 . 2 glioma of rat brain , local blood flow , glucose utilization , protein synthesis , glucose and ATP content were measured by means of triple tracer autoradiography and bioluminescence technique , respectively , to determine hemodynamic and metabolic thresholds for local tumor energy failure . Perfusion thresholds were estimated at tumor blood flow values of 69 . 0 + / - 0 . 1 ml / 100 g / min ( estimate + / - standard error ) and of 69 + / - 7 . 1 ml / 100 g / min for the beginning of the decline in regional ATP and glucose content , respectively . Metabolic thresholds were derived at tumor glucose utilization values of 70 . 6 + / - 8 . 3 mumol / 100 g / min for reduced protein synthesis , of 55 . 0 + / - 0 . 2 mumol / 100 g / min for the decrease in glucose content , and 34 . 7 + / - 4 . 7 mumol / 100 g / min for decline in ATP content . Our results suggest that blood flow limits glucose supply to tumor tissue at much higher flow rates than in normal brain which , in turn , is associated with a decrease in tumor glucose utilization . A reduction and not an increase in tumor glucose availability could be a more appropriate strategy for the induction of energy failure in tumors . Selective inhibition of nuclear factor - kappaB by nuclear factor - kappaB essential modulator - binding domain peptide suppresses the metastasis of highly metastatic oral squamous cell carcinoma . Nuclear factor - kappaB ( NF - kappaB ) activation contributes to the development of metastasis , thus leading to a poor prognosis in many cancers , including OSCC . However , little in vivo experimental data are available about the effects of NF - kappaB inhibition on OSCC metastasis . OSCC sublines were established from a GFP - expressing parental cell line , GSAS , and designated GSAS / N3 and N5 according to the in vivo passage number after cervical lymph node metastasis by a serial orthotopic transplantation model . In vitro migration and invasion were assessed in these cells , and the NF - kappaB activities and expression of NF - kappaB - regulated metastasis - related molecules were also examined . In in vivo experiments , the metastasis and survival of tumor - engrafted mice were monitored . Furthermore , the effects of a selective NF - kappaB inhibitor , NEMO - binding domain ( NBD ) peptide , on metastasis in GSAS / N5 - engrafted mice were assessed , and engrafted tongue tumors were immunohistochemically examined . Highly metastatic GSAS / N3 and N5 cells showed an enhanced NF - kappaB activity , thus contributing to increased migration , invasion , and a poor prognosis compared with the parent cells . Furthermore , the expression levels of NF - kappaB - regulated metastasis - related molecules , such as fibronectin , beta1 integrin , MMP - 1 , - 2 , - 9 , and - 14 , and VEGF - C , were upregulated in the highly metastatic cells . The NBD peptide suppressed metastasis and tongue tumor growth in GSAS / N5 - inoculated mice , and was accompanied by the downregulation of the NF - kappaB - regulated metastasis - related molecules in engrafted tongue tumors . Our results suggest that the selective inhibition of NF - kappaB activation by NBD peptide may provide an effective approach for the treatment of highly metastatic OSCC . beta - catenin signaling controls metastasis in Braf - activated Pten - deficient melanomas . Malignant melanoma is characterized by frequent metastasis , however , specific changes that regulate this process have not been clearly delineated . Although it is well known that Wnt signaling is frequently dysregulated in melanoma , the functional implications of this observation are unclear . By modulating beta - catenin levels in a mouse model of melanoma that is based on melanocyte - specific Pten loss and Braf ( V600E ) mutation , we demonstrate that beta - catenin is a central mediator of melanoma metastasis to the lymph nodes and lungs . In addition to altering metastasis , beta - catenin levels control tumor differentiation and regulate both MAPK / Erk and PI3K / Akt signaling . Highly metastatic tumors with beta - catenin stabilization are very similar to a subset of human melanomas . Together these findings establish Wnt signaling as a metastasis regulator in melanoma . Impaired CK1 delta activity attenuates SV40 - induced cellular transformation in vitro and mouse mammary carcinogenesis in vivo . Simian virus 40 ( SV40 ) is a powerful tool to study cellular transformation in vitro , as well as tumor development and progression in vivo . Various cellular kinases , among them members of the CK1 family , play an important role in modulating the transforming activity of SV40 , including the transforming activity of T - Ag , the major transforming protein of SV40 , itself . Here we characterized the effects of mutant CK1delta variants with impaired kinase activity on SV40 - induced cell transformation in vitro , and on SV40 - induced mammary carcinogenesis in vivo in a transgenic / bi - transgenic mouse model . CK1delta mutants exhibited a reduced kinase activity compared to wtCK1delta in in vitro kinase assays . Molecular modeling studies suggested that mutation N172D , located within the substrate binding region , is mainly responsible for impaired mutCK1delta activity . When stably over - expressed in maximal transformed SV - 52 cells , CK1delta mutants induced reversion to a minimal transformed phenotype by dominant - negative interference with endogenous wtCK1delta . To characterize the effects of CK1delta on SV40 - induced mammary carcinogenesis , we generated transgenic mice expressing mutant CK1delta under the control of the whey acidic protein ( WAP ) gene promoter , and crossed them with SV40 transgenic WAP - T - antigen ( WAP - T ) mice . Both WAP - T mice as well as WAP - mutCK1delta / WAP - T bi - transgenic mice developed breast cancer . However , tumor incidence was lower and life span was significantly longer in WAP - mutCK1delta / WAP - T bi - transgenic animals . The reduced CK1delta activity did not affect early lesion formation during tumorigenesis , suggesting that impaired CK1delta activity reduces the probability for outgrowth of in situ carcinomas to invasive carcinomas . The different tumorigenic potential of SV40 in WAP - T and WAP - mutCK1delta / WAP - T tumors was also reflected by a significantly different expression of various genes known to be involved in tumor progression , specifically of those involved in wnt - signaling and DNA repair . Our data show that inactivating mutations in CK1delta impair SV40 - induced cellular transformation in vitro and mouse mammary carcinogenesis in vivo . Mitochondrial apoptosis and FAK signaling disruption by a novel histone deacetylase inhibitor , HTPB , in antitumor and antimetastatic mouse models . BACKGROUND : Compound targeting histone deacetylase ( HDAC ) represents a new era in molecular cancer therapeutics . However , effective HDAC inhibitors for the treatment of solid tumors remain to be developed . METHODOLOGY / PRINCIPAL FINDINGS : Here , we propose a novel HDAC inhibitor , N - Hydroxy - 4 - ( 4 - phenylbutyryl - amino ) benzamide ( HTPB ) , as a potential chemotherapeutic drug for solid tumors . The HDAC inhibition of HTPB was confirmed using HDAC activity assay . The antiproliferative and anti - migratory mechanisms of HTPB were investigated by cell proliferation , flow cytometry , DNA ladder , caspase activity , Rho activity , F - actin polymerization , and gelatin - zymography for matrix metalloproteinases ( MMPs ) . Mice with tumor xenograft and experimental metastasis model were used to evaluate effects on tumor growth and metastasis . Our results indicated that HTPB was a pan - HDAC inhibitor in suppressing cell viability specifically of lung cancer cells but not of the normal lung cells . Upon HTPB treatment , cell cycle arrest was induced and subsequently led to mitochondria - mediated apoptosis . HTPB disrupted F - actin dynamics via downregulating RhoA activity . Moreover , HTPB inhibited activity of MMP2 and MMP9 , reduced integrin - beta1 / focal adhesion complex formation and decreased pericellular poly - fibronectin assemblies . Finally , intraperitoneal injection or oral administration of HTPB efficiently inhibited A549 xenograft tumor growth in vivo without side effects . HTPB delayed lung metastasis of 4T1 mouse breast cancer cells . Acetylation of histone and non - histone proteins , induction of apoptotic - related proteins and de - phosphorylation of focal adhesion kinase were confirmed in treated mice . CONCLUSIONS / SIGNIFICANCE : These results suggested that intrinsic apoptotic pathway may involve in anti - tumor growth effects of HTPB in lung cancer cells . HTPB significantly suppresses tumor metastasis partly through inhibition of integrin - beta1 / FAK / MMP / RhoA / F - actin pathways . We have provided convincing preclinical evidence that HTPB is a potent HDAC targeted inhibitor and is thus a promising candidate for lung cancer chemotherapy . Inactivation of androgen - induced regulator ARD1 inhibits androgen receptor acetylation and prostate tumorigenesis . Androgen signaling through androgen receptor ( AR ) is critical for prostate tumorigenesis . Given that AR - mediated gene regulation is enhanced by AR coregulators , inactivation of those coregulators is emerging as a promising therapy for prostate cancer ( PCa ) . Here , we show that the N - acetyltransferase arrest - defect 1 protein ( ARD1 ) functions as a unique AR regulator in PCa cells . ARD1 is up - regulated in human PCa cell lines and primary tumor biopsies . The expression of ARD1 was augmented by treatment with synthetic androgen ( R1881 ) unless AR is deficient or is inhibited by AR - specific siRNA or androgen inhibitor bicalutamide ( Casodex ) . Depletion of ARD1 by shRNA suppressed PCa cell proliferation , anchorage - independent growth , and xenograft tumor formation in SCID mice , suggesting that AR - dependent ARD1 expression is biologically germane . Notably , ARD1 was critical for transcriptionally regulating a number of AR target genes that are involved in prostate tumorigenesis . Furthermore , ARD1 interacted physically with and acetylated the AR protein in vivo and in vitro . Because AR - ARD1 interaction facilitated the AR binding to its targeted promoters for gene transcription , we propose that ARD1 functions as a unique AR regulator and forms a positive feedback loop for AR - dependent prostate tumorigenesis . Disruption of AR - ARD1 interactions may be a potent intervention for androgen - dependent PCa therapy . The role of Hes genes in intestinal development , homeostasis and tumor formation . Notch signaling regulates intestinal development , homeostasis and tumorigenesis , but its precise downstream mechanism remains largely unknown . Here we found that inactivation of the Notch effectors Hes1 , Hes3 and Hes5 , but not Hes1 alone , led to reduced cell proliferation , increased secretory cell formation and altered intestinal structures in adult mice . However , in Apc mutation - induced intestinal tumors , inactivation of Hes1 alone was sufficient for reducing tumor cell proliferation and inducing differentiation of tumor cells into all types of intestinal epithelial cells , but without affecting the homeostasis of normal crypts owing to genetic redundancy . These results indicated that Hes genes cooperatively regulate intestinal development and homeostasis and raised the possibility that Hes1 is a promising target to induce the differentiation of tumor cells . Activation - induced cytidine deaminase in antibody diversification and chromosome translocation . DNA damage , rearrangement , and mutation of the human genome are the basis of carcinogenesis and thought to be avoided at all costs . An exception is the adaptive immune system where lymphocytes utilize programmed DNA damage to effect antigen receptor diversification . Both B and T lymphocytes diversify their antigen receptors through RAG1 / 2 mediated recombination , but B cells undergo two additional processes - - somatic hypermutation ( SHM ) and class - switch recombination ( CSR ) , both initiated by activation - induced cytidine deaminase ( AID ) . AID deaminates cytidines in DNA resulting in U : G mismatches that are processed into point mutations in SHM or double - strand breaks in CSR . Although AID activity is focused at Immunoglobulin ( Ig ) gene loci , it also targets a wide array of non - Ig genes including oncogenes associated with lymphomas . Here , we review the molecular basis of AID regulation , targeting , and initiation of CSR and SHM , as well as AID ' s role in generating chromosome translocations that contribute to lymphomagenesis . Expression of HER2 and bradykinin B1 receptors in precursor lesions of gallbladder carcinoma . AIM : To determine the expression of HER2 and bradykinin B ( 1 ) receptors ( B ( 1 ) R ) in the two pathogenic models of gallbladder cancer : the metaplasia - dysplasia - carcinoma and the adenoma - carcinoma pathways . METHODS : Receptor proteins were visualized by immunohistochemistry on 5 - mum sections of paraffin - embedded tissue . Expression of both receptors was studied in biopsy samples from 92 patients ( 6 males and 86 females ; age ranging from 28 to 86 years , mean 56 years ) . High HER2 expression in specimens was additionally investigated by fluorescence in situ hybridization . Cell proliferation in each sample was assessed by using the Ki - 67 proliferation marker . RESULTS : HER2 receptor protein was absent in adenomas and in normal gallbladder epithelium . On the contrary , there was intense staining for HER2 on the basolateral membrane of epithelial cells of intestinal metaplasia ( 22 / 24 ; 91 . 7 % ) and carcinoma in situ ( 9 / 10 ; 90 % ) , the lesions that displayed a significantly high proliferation index . Protein up - regulation of HER2 in the epithelium with metaplasia or carcinoma in situ was not accompanied by HER2 gene amplification . A similar result was observed in invasive carcinomas ( 0 / 12 ) . The B ( 1 ) R distribution pattern mirrored that of HER2 except that B ( 1 ) R was additionally observed in the adenomas . The B ( 1 ) R appeared either as cytoplasmic dots or labeling on the apical cell membrane of the cells composing the epithelia with intestinal metaplasia ( 24 / 24 ; 100 % ) and carcinoma in situ ( 10 / 10 ; 100 % ) and in the epithelial cells of adenomas . In contrast , both HER2 ( 4 / 12 ; 33 % ) and B ( 1 ) R ( 1 / 12 ; 8 . 3 % ) showed a low expression in invasive gallbladder carcinomas . CONCLUSION : The up - regulation of HER2 and B ( 1 ) R in precursor lesions of gallbladder carcinoma suggests cross - talk between these two receptors that may be of importance in the modulation of cell proliferation in gallbladder carcinogenesis . Expression of basic fibroblast growth factor in normal human tissues . The distribution of basic fibroblast growth factor ( bFGF ) was studied immunohistochemically in fresh frozen sections of normal human tissues . Immunodetection was performed with a specific anti - bFGF mouse monoclonal antibody that was found to react with recombinant human bFGF in Western blot analysis , and to specifically neutralize the mitogenic activity of bFGF on bovine vascular endothelial cells . Expression of bFGF on normal human tissues was ubiquitously detected in the basement membranes of all size blood vessels , but was not found in epidermal or epithelial basement membranes of a variety of tissues tested . Intensity and patterns of localization in blood vessels was consistent in various tissues , but varied among different regions of the vascular bed . Whereas homogeneous and intense immunoreactivity were observed in large and intermediate size blood vessels , heterogeneity of expression was found in capillaries . The most intense immunoreactivity was observed in branching capillaries . Endothelial cell staining was heterogeneous and varied in different regions . Strong staining for bFGF was also found in cardiac muscle fibers , smooth muscle cells of mid - size blood vessels , the gut and the myometrium , in central nervous system neurons and cerebellar Purkinje cells , and on epithelial cells of the bronchi , colon , endometrium , and sweat gland ducts of the skin . The presence of bFGF in the extracellular compartment of a diverse variety of organs may play a role in angiogenesis . However , the function of bFGF in parenchymal cells remains to be determined . Incidence of BRAF p . Val600Glu and p . Val600Lys mutations in a consecutive series of 183 metastatic melanoma patients from a high incidence region . AIM : Approximately 40 - 60 % of melanomas from Caucasian populations carry activating mutations in the BRAF oncogene , with the most common being the p . Val600Glu ( V600E ) hotspot mutation in exon 15 . The aim of the present study was to investigate the frequency of the less common p . Val600Lys ( V600K ) mutation in metastatic melanoma from a high incidence region . METHOD : Dideoxy sequencing and fluorescent single strand conformation analysis were used to screen for mutations in exon 15 of BRAF in 183 cases of metastatic melanoma . RESULTS : The overall incidence of BRAF mutation ( 89 / 183 , 49 % ) was very similar to other large studies of Caucasian populations . However , the frequency of the p . Val600Lys mutation was higher than in most other studies and comprised almost one - third of all BRAF mutations in our cohort ( 27 / 89 , 30 % ) . CONCLUSION : BRAF p . Val600Lys mutations were present at a relatively high frequency in this cohort of metastatic melanoma patients ( 27 / 183 , 15 % ) . Assays used to screen for BRAF mutations in the clinic should be robust enough to detect the p . Val600Lys mutation , as this may have therapeutic implications . [ Biotechnological and biomedical aspects of production and study of metal cation - phospholipid complexes ] . Problems relating to the technology of a phospholipid preparation from natural materials , liposome production , and studies into the mechanisms of interaction between metal ( trace elements ) cations and model bilayer lipid membranes are discussed . The proposed technology of extraction allows for preparation of phospholipids utilizable for liposome formation . The cation specificity of lipid bilayers is found to be determined by the presence of anionic phosphate adsorption sites on their surface . Overexpression confers an oncogenic potential upon the eph gene . The eph gene encodes a putative receptor tyrosine kinase for an as yet unknown ligand . Some human cancer cells have been found to overexpress eph mRNAs without gene amplification . We show here that NIH3T3 cells acquire tumorigenic ability in nude mice and make colonies in soft agar with a viral LTR ( Long Terminal Repeat ) - driven artificial expression of the eph gene to a high level . This result supports the alleged contribution of overexpressed receptor tyrosine kinases to cell transformation . The enlarging clinical spectrum of Lyme disease : Lyme cerebral vasculitis , a new disease entity . The case of a patient with cerebral vasculitis with a right thalamic infarct associated with cerebral spinal fluid Lyme disease is presented . This entity has not been described in the United States , and only one similar case in the world literature could be found . The patient presented with a progressive headache and subsequent development of grand mal seizure activity . Lyme disease has been associated with cranial nerve palsies , peripheral and cranial radiculopathies , aseptic meningitis , encephalitic symptoms , chorea , and demyelinating polyneuropathy presenting like Guillain - Barre syndrome . These syndromes can occur separately or in combination . Stroke and strokelike syndromes have been attributed to Lyme disease . The literature concerning the neurologic manifestations of Lyme disease is reviewed . Amplification of mineralocorticoid activity of aldosterone by 18 - hydroxy - corticosterone and 18 - hydroxy - 19 - nor - corticosterone in adrenalectomized rats . A combination of aldosterone ( 1 micrograms ) with either 18 - OH - corticosterone ( 1 micrograms ) or 18 - OH - 19 - norcorticosterone ( 1 micrograms ) injected to adrenalectomized rats indicated an amplification of mineralocorticoid activity as expressed by Na / K ratio in urine . Without aldosterone their mineralocorticoid potency was negligible . Alterations in carbohydrate metabolism in canine lymphoma . Following an overnight fast , blood samples were obtained from 14 dogs with previously untreated lymphoma before and 5 , 15 , 30 , 45 , 60 , and 90 minutes following an intravenous challenge with 500 mg / kg dextrose . Samples were assayed for glucose , lactate , and insulin concentrations and compared statistically with ten control dogs of similar weight and age undergoing an identical dextrose challenge . Dogs with lymphoma had similar glucose tolerance curves when compared with controls . Lactate concentrations were significantly higher ( P less than 0 . 001 ) at baseline and all time periods of the glucose tolerance test in dogs with lymphoma when compared with controls . Rise in lactate concentrations over baseline levels in the first 30 minutes of the glucose tolerance test were significantly higher in dogs with lymphoma ( P = 0 . 011 ) . Insulin concentrations were significantly higher ( P less than 0 . 001 ) at baseline and at the 5 - , 45 - , 60 - , and 90 - minute time periods of the glucose tolerance test in dogs with lymphoma . Rise in insulin concentrations over baseline in the first 5 minutes of the glucose tolerance test were also significantly greater in dogs with lymphoma ( P = 0 . 021 ) . These results indicate carbohydrate metabolism is altered in dogs with lymphoma . Many of these alterations parallel those observed in human patients suffering from cancer cachexia making canine lymphoma a potential model for further study of the pathogenesis and therapy of cancer cachexia . Retinal revascularisation in diabetic retinopathy . The case history of a 33 - year - old diabetic patient who has had diabetes for 24 years is presented . When first seen in 1975 he had bilateral proliferative retinopathy with new vessels in the retinal periphery . He had large areas of capillary non - perfusion lateral to the macula in the right eye associated with the new vessels . Nine years later , after extensive repeated photocoagulation , revascularisation of large areas previously not perfused were seen . The vessels are in the plane of the retina and do not have the appearance of new vessels . Members of the src and ras oncogene families supplant the epidermal growth factor requirement of BALB / MK - 2 keratinocytes and induce distinct alterations in their terminal differentiation program . BALB - / MK - 2 mouse epidermal keratinocytes required epidermal growth factor for proliferation and terminally differentiated in response to high Ca2 + concentration . Infection with retroviruses containing transforming genes of the src and ras oncogene families led to rapid loss of epidermal growth factor dependence , in some cases , accompanied by alterations in cellular morphology . The virus - altered cells continued to proliferate in the presence of high levels of extracellular calcium but exhibited alterations in normal keratinocyte terminal differentiation that appear to be specific to the particular oncogene . These alterations bore similarities to abnormalities in differentiation observed in naturally occurring squamous epithelial malignancies . Experimental drug therapy of peritumoral brain edema . Four drugs with potential anti - peritumoral brain edema activity were studied using the VX2 rabbit brain tumor model . Meclofenamate and indomethacin were tested in an attempt to confirm recent reports of anti - edema activity in non steroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ( NSAID ' s ) . The ' angiostatic ' steroids 17 hydroxyprogesterone and epicortisol were tested because of their lack of glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid effects and their structural similarity to glucocorticoids . The protein and water component of brain edema were indirectly quantitated . None of the test drugs demonstrated significant anti - edema activity . This work does not confirm reports that NSAID ' s have anti - edema activity and suggests that there may be no correlation between ' angiostatic ' and anti - edema activity in certain steroid compounds . Gastric microcirculatory change and development of acute gastric mucosal lesions ( stress ulcer ) . Concerning the pathogenesis of acute gastric mucosal lesions , gastric microcirculatory change has drawn attention as an important factor . In view of this fact , gastric mucosal blood flow and microvascular structure were investigated in normal and in burn stressed rats . Moreover , alterations in acid and pepsin activities in by morphological and biochemical procedures in order to evaluate the relationship between defensive and aggressive factors of the gastric mucosa . Gastric mucosal blood flow decreased significantly in early period after induction of stress ( p less than 0 . 01 ) . The incidence of ulceration showed a correlative relation with the decrease of mucosal blood flow . Reduction of blood flow in burn was due to opening of arteriovenular shunt and it appeared that this was responsible for mucosal ischemia and congestion . Following the decrease of blood flow , acid output was lower in stress than that in control . Finally , the results of these studies demonstrated the importance of defensive factors . The reduction of mucosal blood flow resulted in the sequence of events that led to formation of acute gastric mucosal lesion . Identification of a small region of the v - fos gene product that is sufficient for transforming potential and growth - stimulating activity . To analyze the structure - function relationship for the v - fos protein , we constructed in - frame insertion and deletion mutants of the v - fos gene carried by FBJ - MuSV , and expressed them in chicken primary cells using retrovirus vectors . We assessed the effects of these mutations on the ability of the v - fos protein to transform chicken embryo fibroblasts and to stimulate cellular proliferation of chicken neuroretinal cells . The mutant which retains only the central region of the v - fos protein ( Met111 - Ile206 ) have both activities , but the mutants which have deletions in this region , and one of the mutants that has a four amino acid insertion in it , lost both activities . The central region that is sufficient for these activities includes the evolutionarily highly conserved region among human , mouse and chicken c - fos proteins . Additionally , this sequence shares some homology with the DNA binding domain of GCN4 and c - jun protein . The truncated fos protein that contains only part of the central region is not phosphorylated in chicken embryo fibroblasts , indicating that phosphorylation of the fos protein is not necessary for the transforming activity . Inhibition by retinoic acid of type IV collagenolysis and invasion through reconstituted basement membrane by metastatic rat mammary adenocarcinoma cells . The activity of type IV collagenase , which enables tumor cells to degrade collagen type IV found in the subendothelial basement membrane , has been correlated with the metastatic potential in several tumor types , including the rat 13762NF mammary adenocarcinoma cell line and its clones . In this study , we examined whether all - trans - retinoic acid ( all - trans - RA ) and other retinoids , which exhibit antitumor activity in vitro and in vivo , affect the collagenolytic activity of metastatic rat 13762NF mammary adenocarcinoma cells . Cells of the highly metastatic lung - colonizing clone MTF7 . T35 . 3 , derived from the 13762NF cell line , were treated for 3 days with 0 . 1 , 1 , or 10 microM all - trans - RA , harvested , and seeded on [ 3H ] proline - labeled extracellular matrix deposited by cultured rat lung endothelial cells or on a film of purified [ 3H ] proline - labeled type IV collagen . The amount of radioactivity released into the medium during the subsequent 24 to 72 h was measured , and it was found that all - trans - RA treatment inhibited degradation of extracellular matrix and type IV collagen by 50 to 60 % . This effect was observed whether the cells had been treated with all - trans - RA in serum - free medium or in medium supplemented with heat - inactivated or acid - treated fetal bovine serum . The growth of the cells was not inhibited under these conditions , except after treatment with 10 microM all - trans - RA in serum - free medium . The reduction in collagenolytic activity was observed in viable cells as well as in conditioned medium . A 24 - h exposure of cells to all - trans - RA was sufficient to cause a 30 % decrease in the collagenolytic activity , and this inhibitory effect was reversible . The direct addition of all - trans - RA to conditioned medium had no effect on secreted collagenase activity . The apparent molecular weights of the collagenolytic enzymes were determined by electrophoresis of cell extracts and concentrated conditioned medium in type IV collagen - embedded polyacrylamide gels followed by renaturation and activation of the enzymes within the gels . Two major type IV collagenolytic metalloproteinases exhibiting molecular weights of 64 , 000 and 88 , 000 , respectively , were detected by this method . These two enzymes were also found to have specificity for gelatin . The Mr 64 , 000 enzyme could be extracted from viable cells ( presumably from the cell membrane ) by 2 % 1 - butanol . Treatment with all - trans - RA decreased the level of these enzymes in the cellular , cell membrane , and conditioned medium compartments . ( ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS ) Type - A cholecystokinin receptors in CHP212 neuroblastoma cells : evidence for association with G protein and activation of phosphoinositide hydrolysis . 125I - Bolton Hunter - cholecystokinin octapeptide ( BH - CCK8 ) and ( - ) - [ 3H ] L - 364718 membrane binding assays were used to identify and characterize cholecystokinin ( CCK ) receptors in CHP212 human neuroblastoma cells . The ligand binding properties of CCK receptors in these cells are similar to those found in pancreas ( CCK - A sites ) and differ from the predominant type of CCK binding site found in brain ( CCK - B sites ) . The specific binding of 125I - BH - CCK8 but not ( - ) - [ 3H ] L - 364718 was reduced by the metabolically stable GTP analog guanosine 5 ' - ( beta - delta - imido ) trisphosphate . A substantial difference in the Bmax for the radiolabeled agonist ( 125I - BH - CCK8 ) and antagonist [ ( - ) - [ 3H ] L - 364718 ] was noted . These observations are consistent with CCK receptors existing in guanine nucleotide - binding protein - coupled and - uncoupled states . Similar to its action in pancreatic acinar cells , CCK8 ( S ) stimulated the accumulation of [ 3H ] inositol phosphates in cells prelabeled with [ 3H ] myo - inositol ( EC50 = 3 . 2 + / - 0 . 4 nM ; maximum response = 4 . 5 + / - 0 . 4 x basal ) . The intrinsic activity of CCK analogues in stimulating phosphoinositide hydrolysis was substantially less than their reported intrinsic activity in stimulating phosphoinositide hydrolysis in pancreatic acinar cells . The CHP212 neuroblastoma cell may serve as a useful model for the recently reported CCK - A binding site found in the central nervous system . Energy supply of the mitotic cell cycle and the Na + / H + - antiport in ascites tumors . The activation of Na + transport is due to the exchange of protons formed via glucose conversion into lactate for Na + , i . e . , to the stimulation of the Na + / H + - antiport . Experimental results and theoretical calculations suggest that in glucose - containing medium the Na + transport increases from 0 . 75 to 1 . 78 pmol / hour per cell . The permeability of plasma membranes for K + increases 2 . 75 fold , while the passive flux of Na + diminishes . The intensity of O2 adsorption by ascites tumor cells does not practically depend on the monovalent cation concentration gradient between the cells and the culture medium , whereas the rate of glycolysis decreases simultaneously with the diminution of the concentration gradient . In synchronized cultures at the beginning of the mitotic cycle , the bulk of ATP resynthesized via glycolysis is utilized for the synthesis of biopolymers , whereas that at the end of the S - phase and in the G2 - phase is utilized for cation transport across plasma membranes . From 35 to 100 % of the whole amount of ATP resynthesized via glycolysis is utilized for transport purposes . It is concluded that the observed increase in the Na + / K + ratio in ascites tumor cells is connected with their enhanced ability to synthesize lactic acid . Presumably , glycolysis is one of the regulatory mechanisms of intracellular ratios of monovalent cations . Endoscopic injection therapy for acute upper GI bleeding . In summary , we have found this technique to be useful in patients in whom coagulation therapy is not possible or effective . It must still be considered a technique which is undergoing evaluation . Prospective randomized trials comparing this therapy with other currently available therapies such a electrocoagulation , laser and conservative management must be completed to firmly define its place in treatment strategy for acute upper GI bleeding . Screening method for insecticidal activity using first instars of black blow fly ( Diptera : Calliphoridae ) . A bioassay method suitable for rapid mass screening of fermentation and synthetic organic compounds for insecticidal activity is described . The test , which uses first instars of susceptible black blow fly , Phormia regina ( Meigen ) , in a bovine serum medium , detects insecticidal activity with reproducible results . It is capable of selecting the most active compound in structure - activity relationships by minimum effective dose concentration studies . The bioassay system is easy to operate and requires only a minute quantity of chemical compound . Osteonectin transcript and metastatic behavior in v - Ki - ras transformed fibroblasts . Osteonectin is one of the major non - collagenous proteins of bone . However , its transcript has been found in many soft , extracellular matrix - producing tissues ; an osteonectin - related protein was detected in tumor basement membrane . We have investigated the expression of osteonectin gene in fresh BALB / c fibroblasts transformed by v - Ki - ras . Transformed cells exhibited lower levels of RNA as compared with normal fibroblasts . The transformed cells were cloned after in vivo tumorigenic assay , and 4 clones were analyzed for osteonectin expression by Northern blots . Two of them were selected for high or low osteonectin expression and tested in vivo in spontaneous and artificial metastasis assays . High osteonectin expression was correlated with high lung colonization . When 10 ( 5 ) cells were injected i . v . , median colony value was 55 and 20 in higher expressor vs . lower expressor respectively ( p less than 0 . 005 ) . Spontaneous metastasis indicates a possible reverse correlation . Our data align osteonectin with other matrix - components and adhesion molecules in affecting potential metastatic spreading of transformed cells . Early post - mortem metabolism and muscle shortening in the Pectoralis major muscle of broiler chickens . Three experiments were conducted to examine the effects of sodium pentobarbital ( SP ) , iodoacetate ( IO ) , tubocurarine ( TC ) , and surgical denervation ( DN ) on early rigor development in broiler breast muscle . In Experiment 1 , birds were either anesthetized or not with SP before receiving an injection of IO or TC or maintained as noninjected controls . Experiment 2 was identical except that a treatment of denervation of the breast muscle was added . Experiment 3 was conducted to contrast birds at 1 day ( DN1 ) and 3 days ( DN3 ) denervation prior to slaughter to nonoperated controls . Measurements of muscle lactate , ATP , R value ( ratio of inosine to adenine nucleotides ) , pH , sarcomere lengths , and shear were used to evaluate treatment effects . Results for Experiment 1 showed no significant differences among treatment and control groups for ATP and lactate contents , R values , or sarcomere lengths ; however , significantly lower pH and higher shear values were observed for control birds . In Experiment 2 , no significant differences were observed among the treatment groups for ATP , R values , or sarcomere lengths . However , lactate and shear values were significantly lower , and pH higher , for the DN and SP treated birds . Experiment 3 resulted in lower lactate and higher pH values for the DN3 treatment in comparison with both DN1 and control groups . Results of these studies indicate that the use of SP and DN can be used to alter the early profiles of rigor development . Effects of hypertension and sympathetic denervation on cerebral blood flow in newborn pigs . To investigate the potential role of sympathetic nerves in preventing pronounced increases in cerebral blood flow , we evaluated the effects of abrupt hypertension on the cerebral circulation of newborn pigs with intact cerebral sympathetic innervation and after cerebral sympathetic denervation . Epinephrine infusion was used to induce abrupt increases in mean ( + / - SEM ) arterial pressure ( innervated pigs , 62 + / - 3 mm of Hg to 115 + / - 3 mm of Hg ; denervated pigs , 71 + / - 4 mm of Hg to 132 + / - 4 mm of Hg ) that remained increased for the 3 minutes of the study . Abrupt hypertension increased blood flow to all brain regions . In denervated pigs , the increased flow to the cerebrum was prolonged , compared with that in pigs with intact sympathetic innervation . Differences between pigs of the innervated and denervated groups were not apparent , with respect to blood flow to any other region ( caudate region , brain stem , cerebellum ) . In newborn pigs , sympathetic nerves may attenuate hypertension - induced increases in blood flow to the cerebrum , but do not appear to affect flow to the rest of the brain . [ Tumor metastasis and the fibrinolytic system ] . Metastatic spread of malignant tumor appears to correlate with activation of the fibrolytic system . The role of fibrinolysis in growth and metastasis was examined in Lewis lung carcinoma of mice . The inhibition of fibrinolysis or proteases decreased the primary tumor growth and pulmonary metastasis , whereas the activation of fibrinolysis or proteases increased the number of metastatic foci in the lung . Electronmicroscopically , thrombus formation in the primary site prevented tumor invasion and metastasis formation . Plasminogen activator ( PA ) content of excised tumors was determined by SDS - PAGE , and major PA was found to be urokinase ( UK ) type . Immunohistochemical study with specific antisera was done . When tumor cells possessed a high level of UK , laminin and type IV collagen , components of the basement membrane , disappeared from tumor tissues . These findings suggest that PA through protease cascade plays a role in tumor invasion and metastasis . Clinically , patients with advanced cancer are usually in a hypercoagulable state with elevated fibrinogen , and fibrin deposition around tumor mass is a serious problem in cancer chemotherapy . UK infusion prior to 5 - fluorouracil increased tissue concentration of antitumor agent . However , development of consumption coagulopathy characterized by progression from hypercoagulable state to disseminated intravascular coagulation has also been found in several cases . [ Intraepithelial neoplasm of the uterine cervix and angiogenesis : morphologic study ] Thirty uterine cervix specimens sampled following conization or total hysterectomy were studied using histology , histoenzymology ( vessel phosphatase alkaline activity ) , and immunohistochemistry ( demonstration of laminin and type IV collagen in epithelium and vessel basement membranes ) . Pathologic conditions included dystrophia , moderate dysplasia , severe dysplasia , and intraepithelial carcinoma . Results were compared to findings in a control group . We found that the severity of vascular abnormalities correlated positively with the severity of histologic epithelial lesions ; this finding is consistent with colposcopic results . Anarchic angiogenesis with large , moniliform , tortuous vessels was seen in severe dysplasias and carcinomas . The vascular anomalies seem to precede the development of histologic lesions in some instances . Histogenesis of the abnormal vessels may involve production of an angiogenic factor by the cancerized epithelia . Glycolysis and glutaminolysis in perifused Ehrlich ascites tumour cells . A perifusion system was designed in order to study glucose and glutamine metabolism by freshly harvested Ehrlich ascites tumour cells in steady state conditions . Cells were perifused in the presence of 5 mM glucose , 0 . 5 mM glutamine or 5 mM glucose and 0 . 5 mM glutamine . The results in steady state reveal that both substrates glucose and glutamine are continuously wasted by tumour cells , excreting two moles of lactate per mol of glucose and one mol of glutamate and ammonia per mol of glutamine consumed into the medium . Glutamine consumption in the presence of glucose was higher than with glutamine alone . Invagination of the otic placode : normal development and experimental manipulation . The inner ear forms from paired ectodermal primordia that lie to either side of the developing hindbrain . Initially each primordium forms a shallow depression in the ectodermal surface . Invagination to form an otic pit coincides with the formation of several deep folds in the epithelial surface . An initial fold appears parallel to the embryonic axis and at the junction of the rhombencephalon with somitomeric mesoderm . This is followed by formation of cranial and caudal folds perpendicular to the axis and minor folds that are within the pit formed by earlier folding . The central region of the otic primordium remains in close apposition to the lateral surface of the neural tube during the process of fold formation , until the otic pit becomes quite deep . At that time , mesenchymal cells penetrate between the two layers . Experimental analysis of invagination supports the conclusion that otic invagination is controlled differently from that of similar organ primordia , such as the eye and thyroid . Whereas these other primordia can be stimulated to undergo normal morphogenetic shape changes precociously by treatments that presumably activate motile processes in the cytoskeleton , the same conditions have little effect on the otic placode . Similarly , neither inhibitors of calcium transport nor inactivators of calmodulin activity prevent otic pit formation , while these drugs block invagination of other primordia . These results suggest that otic invagination may be caused by changes in the surrounding tissues rather than by an activation of motility within the primordium . Anaplastic and sarcomatoid carcinoma of the small intestine : a clinicopathologic study . Carcinomas involving the jejunum and ileum are rare tumors . During a review of small intestinal neoplasms , six primary carcinomas of jejunum or ileum with an anaplastic and sarcomatoid histology were identified . At presentation , three of the patients had symptoms related to metastatic disease and three had symptoms referable to the local tumor . The tumors were large ( greater than 4 . 5 cm in diameter ) , usually endophytic masses composed of large cells with eosinophilic cytoplasm , anaplastic nuclei , and prominent nucleoli . In many areas , the cells had a spindled configuration . Mucin positivity was identified in all six cases . Electron microscopic findings in two cases were indicative of epithelial differentiation . The tumors behaved aggressively ; all five patients for whom there was clinical follow - up died of metastases within 40 months . The six anaplastic and sarcomatoid carcinomas were compared with 29 typical adenocarcinomas arising in the jejunum or ileum . Only two of the latter group had symptoms referable to distant metastases at presentation . These tumors also tended to be smaller at presentation ( 11 tumors were less than 4 cm in greatest dimension ) . Of 25 patients with typical adenocarcinomas who had acceptable follow - up , 18 ( 72 % ) died of disease and five ( 20 % ) were alive with no evidence of disease after 5 years . We conclude that anaplastic and sarcomatoid carcinoma is a rare variant of small intestinal carcinoma with an aggressive clinical course . Time course of transmitter action at the sympathetic neuroeffector junction in rodent vascular and non - vascular smooth muscle . 1 . Transmitter release from sympathetic postganglionic nerve terminals innervating the guinea - pig and mouse vas deferens and the rat tail artery has been studied in vitro by focal extracellular recording with particular emphasis on the time course of transmitter action underlying the intracellular potential changes . 2 . In the absence of stimulation , spontaneous excitatory junction currents ( SEJCs ) were recorded with amplitudes up to 500 microV and durations between 40 and 100 ms . SEJCs were unaffected by the competitive alpha - adrenoceptor antagonist prazosin but blocked by alpha , beta - methylene ATP which desensitizes P2 - purinoceptors . 3 . During trains of supramaximal stimuli at 0 . 1 - 4 Hz stimulus locked excitatory junction currents ( EJCs ) were evoked intermittently from the population of varicosities located under the suction electrode . 4 . SEJCs were similar in amplitude and time course to EJCs evoked by low - frequency stimulation in the same attachment in all three tissues . 5 . SEJCs recorded using either a conventional AC amplifier or a patch clamp amplifier had the same time course . 6 . These studies show that the time course of the current underlying the excitatory junction potential is brief and essentially the same in three different tissues . The prolonged time course of the excitatory junction potential in different tissues can be accounted for by the passive membrane properties . Phase II trial with D - Trp - 6 - LH - RH in prostatic carcinoma : comparison with other hormonal agents . Various approaches to hormonal treatment of prostate carcinoma are discussed . Eighty - one patients with prostatic carcinoma , eight with stage B , nine with stage C , and 64 with stage D disease , were treated subcutaneously daily for 3 months with the LH - RH agonist D - Trp - 6 - LH - RH ( Decapeptyl ) in order to evaluate the incidence of remissions according to WHO recommendations for oncologic trials . The findings were compared to those obtained with other hormonal therapies of prostatic carcinoma according to the statistical method of " expected response rate " as adapted by Lee and Wesley for phase II trials . Treatment with D - Trp - 6 - LH - RH greatly reduced serum LH and testosterone levels without raising serum prolactin . After 1 - 2 weeks of therapy , there was relief of subjective symptoms and a reversal of the signs of prostatism as well as a marked decrease in bone pain . At 90 days 52 patients had complete relief of prostatism and 21 had only mild signs and symptoms . Seventy patients were experiencing no bone pain and an additional six had only mild pain . Prostatic size , evaluated by rectal examination and transabdominal ultrasonography , reverted to normal in 26 . 4 % of patients ( complete remission ) and was reduced by more than 50 % in an additional 17 . 6 % ( partial remission ) , the overall rate of complete plus partial regression of prostatic enlargement being 44 % . Scans showed a major improvement of bone lesions in 14 . 8 % of cases . This response increased to 37 % after more than 6 months of follow - up . Prostatic acid phosphatase levels were decreased by more than 50 % in 61 % of the patients , but this test appears to be a less valid marker than the lipid - associated sialic acid ( LASA ) . The increase in LASA before treatment and a reduction after treatment can frequently be correlated with the objective volume of the neoplasms . No flare - up of the disease was encountered , and there were no side effects except for impotence . Statistical analyses of results by the method of Lee and Wesley indicated that the incidence of complete and partial regression ( CR and PR ) observed with D - Trp - 6 - LH - RH was not significantly different from that recorded in previous studies for another LH - RH analog , Buserelin . However , CR and PR obtained with D - Trp - 6 - LH - RH ( 44 % ) were significantly higher than with subcapsular orchiectomy ( 22 % ) . Hormonal effects and some other actions of D - Trp - 6 - LH - RH were compared and contrasted with those produced by castration , estrogens , antiandrogens , and progestogens . ( ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS ) On the mechanism of glycolysis stimulation by neutral detergents in 3T3 and Ehrlich ascites tumor cells . Glycolysis of 3T3 and Ehrlich ascites tumor cells was greatly enhanced by Nonidet P - 40 or Triton X - 100 at about 100 micrograms / mg cell protein . This enhanced glycolysis was partly sensitive to rutamycin and partly sensitive to ouabain , suggesting that the detergent released the control of the ATPase of the mitochondria and of the plasma membrane Na + K + - ATPase . Nonidet P - 40 had no effect on glycolysis in cell - free extracts from Ehrlich ascites tumor cells to which soluble mitochondrial ATPase was added . Measuring ouabain - sensitive 22Na efflux and using ouabain - sensitive lactate production as a measure of ATP hydrolysis by the Na + K + pump , it was shown that Nonidet P - 40 greatly decreased the efficiency of the Na + K + pump . Quercetin increased the efficiency of pumping in EAT cells both in the absence and presence of the detergent . Elevated levels of diacylglycerol and decreased phorbol ester sensitivity in ras - transformed fibroblasts . Diacylglycerol ( DG ) plays a central role in phospholipid metabolism and is an endogenous activator of protein kinase C . We have suggested that constitutive activation of this kinase is one mechanism by which oncogenes transform cells . The ras - encoded proteins are similar to regulatory G - proteins and are candidates for the unknown G - protein that modulates phosphatidylinositol ( PI ) turnover . Differences in polyphosphoinositide metabolism have been reported for ras - transformed cells . But because these experiments were performed on confluent cultures of established cell lines , the differences are difficult to attribute to ras transformation . Here we show that exponentially growing NIH 3T3 fibroblasts recently transformed by Ha - ras or Ki - ras possess elevated DG concentrations without significant alterations in the levels of other polyphosphoinositide metabolites . The basal phosphorylation of protein kinase C substrate of relative molecular mass ( Mr ) 80 , 000 ( 80K ) is significantly increased in all the ras - transformed cell lines . Surprisingly , however , further phosphorylation of this protein on addition of phorbol ester was greatly reduced . Ha - ras cells also show less binding of phorbol ester than control cells , suggesting that elevation of DG causes partial down - regulation in addition to activation of protein kinase C . Epidermal growth factor and its receptor . Epidermal growth factor ( EGF ) binds with high affinity and specificity to a single site on the external domain of its transmembrane receptor to activate the tyrosine protein kinase activity of its cytoplasmic portion . The EGF receptor gene is amplified and over - expressed in several human tumors , suggesting that increased concentrations of the proto - oncogene leads to constitutive activity similar to that seen with oncogene erb B . Synthesis and degradation of the EGF receptor are regulated , in addition , covalent modification by phosphorylation regulates activity of the receptor protein . Intramolecular self - phosphorylation of Tyr1173 removes a competitive inhibitory constraint to enhance phosphorylation of substrates . Phosphorylation of Thr654 by protein kinase C decreases high affinity EGF binding and EGF - stimulated tyrosine protein kinase activity , providing a mechanism for heterologous regulation of the EGF receptor by tumor promoters and other ligand X receptor complexes . Extensive regulation contributes to normal growth control , abrogation of regulatory controls contributes to uncontrolled growth as seen with erb B transformation and EGF receptor gene amplification in human tumors . Malate - citrate cycle during glycolysis and glutaminolysis in Ehrlich ascites tumor cells . The malate - citrate cycle was studied during aerobic glycolysis and glutaminolysis in a strain of Ehrlich ascites tumor cells which showed a very low malate - aspartate shuttle system activity . The experimental approach includes : estimation of mitochondrial NAD [ P ] + - dependent malic enzyme activity ; respiratory activity of freshly harvested or fasted cells , and of isolated mitochondria ; and determination of the metabolites involved in the glycolytic and glutaminolytic pathways . The results suggest that in this strain , the malate - citrate shuttle is not an effective pathway for transferring glycolytic reducing equivalents from cytosol to mitochondria . Less than 15 % of the glucose uptake was affected by the 1 , 2 , 3 - benzenetricarboxylate inhibition of the malate - citrate shuttle . Moreover , in the presence of glucose , the malate - citrate cycle did not appear to play an important role in the glutaminolytic process . The present work supports and extends the finding of previous studies , since the results showed that the glucose metabolism depressed the oxidative processes in Ehrlich ascites tumor mitochondria , not only alone , but also in the presence of glutamine . Interestingly , the high glutamine uptake was maintained in the presence of glucose . Differential secretion of proteins and glycoproteins by livers of immature and adult rats . Effect of antimicrotubule drugs . This study was initiated to re - examine reported differences in the action of antimicrotubule agents on plasma protein secretion from livers of immature versus adult rats . The aim was ( 1 ) to determine the composition and to monitor the secretion of various plasma proteins and glycoproteins from liver slices labeled in vitro with specific amino acids and sugar residues , and ( 2 ) to correlate observed differences in secretion of these proteins with structural changes in the hepatocytes of the different aged animals . For the most part , slices of liver from fetal ( term ) , neonatal ( 4 - to 5 days old ) , and adult rats ( 70 days old ) were incubated with radioactive amino acids or various tritiated sugars specific for N - linked core oligosaccharide and / or N - linked terminal oligosaccharide chains . Our findings indicate that liver slices of fetal and neonatal rats are efficient in synthesizing plasma proteins including fully glycosylated glycoproteins . The secretion of glycosylated and nonglycosylated proteins believed to be processed through Golgi complexes was inhibited to the same extent ( approximately 70 - 80 % ) by antimicrotubule agents , regardless of the age of the host animal . However , other proteins and glycoproteins secreted by livers of immature rats were found to be relatively insensitive ( i . e . inhibited to only 30 - 40 % ) to the action of various antimicrotubule drugs . The glycoproteins were found to lack N - linked terminal sugars ( although the glycoproteins did contain N - linked core sugars ) , and it is likely that the drug - insensitive proteins bypassed critical glycosylating sites in the Golgi compartment prior to release . Overall , these findings support earlier data showing that antimicrotubule drugs have a special impact on Golgi - associated events in liver cells . To what extent these findings are related to the action of microtubules remains to be seen . Multi - step neoplastic transformation of normal human fibroblasts by Co - 60 gamma rays and Ha - ras oncogenes . As reported previously ( Namba et al . , 1985 ; Namba , 1985 ) , normal human fibroblasts were transformed into immortal cells with abnormal karyotypes by Co - 60 gamma - ray irradiation . These immortally transformed cells ( KMST - 6 ) showed no clonability in soft agar and were not tumorigenic . However , by treatment with Ha - ras oncogenes derived from a human lung carcinoma or Harvey murine sarcoma virus , the KMST - 6 cells acquired elevated clonability in soft agar and transplantability in nude mice . All the tumors produced grew progressively without showing regression and killed the mice . The tumors were also serially transplantable into other mice . The Ha - ras oncogene alone did not convert normal human fibroblasts into either immortal or tumorigenic cells . Our current data suggest that gamma rays worked as an initiator of carcinogenesis in normal human cells , giving rise to chromosome aberrations and immortality , and the Ha - ras oncogene played a role in the progression of the immortally transformed cell population to a neoplastic one showing enhanced colony formation in soft agar and tumorigenicity in nude mice . N - methyl - N - nitrosourea - induced transformation of rat urothelial cells in vitro is not mediated by activation of ras oncogenes . Adult rat urothelial cells were transformed in vitro following treatment with a single dose of N - methyl - N - nitrosourea ( MNU ) or MNU treatment followed by promotion with sodium saccharin . This in vitro transformation process involves multiple steps : slow - growing ' pre - neoplastic ' epithelial foci are induced 70 - 100 days after MNU treatment and from such foci rapidly proliferating immortal cell lines were established , some of which became tumorigenic after a further latent period . A series of epithelial cell lines and a single fibroblast cell line established in this way were analysed for the presence of transforming genes by DNA transfection into NIH3T3 cells . None of the epithelial cell lines induced foci in a focus formation assay . The single non - epithelial line induced foci and was found to contain an activated c - Ki - ras gene with a G - - - - A transition in codon 12 . To assay for the possible presence of transforming genes which were not active in a focus formation assay , two of the epithelial lines were analysed further by co - transfection with a dominant selectable marker , followed by selection and inoculation into nude mice . No tumours were induced within the latent period for tumour production by control cells transfected with NIH3T3 cell DNA ( 40 - 60 days ) . These results suggest that there is cell type specificity for oncogene activation during in vitro rat bladder transformation initiated by a single carcinogen and that ras gene activation is not a necessary step in urothelial transformation in vitro . The posterior tether in scoliosis . The hypothesis that a localized lordosis , or tethering of the posterior elements of the spine , is the primary cause of the vertebral rotation in idiopathic scoliosis was investigated in anatomic specimens of human and calf spinal columns . The specimens were axially loaded with and without a posterior tether created using Zielke instrumentation . Lateral deflection and axial rotation were monitored roentgenographically . The vertebrae of tethered spines showed increased rotation in the direction associated with idiopathic scoliosis . The spinous processes moved toward the concavity at the apex of the induced lateral curve . Conversely , untethered spines either exhibited little rotation or rotated in the opposite direction ; the spinous processes moved toward the convexity of the curve . Rotations toward the convexity occur in rotational kyphosis . Thus the hypothesis that idiopathic scoliosis is a rotational lordosis is substantiated ; the characteristic rotation can be explained with the aid of a geometric model . Glutamine and glucose as energy substrates for Ehrlich ascites tumour cells . Energy metabolism of freshly harvested Ehrlich ascites tumour cells in the presence of 5 mM glucose and / or 0 . 5 mM glutamine was studied . The rate of oxygen utilization was not altered by the addition of 0 . 5 mM glutamine ; 5 mM glucose induced an inhibition of respiration . In the presence of both glucose and glutamine , the Crabtree effect decreased . In these conditions , the rates of oxygen uptake , the CO2 evolution and the changes in the redox states of cytochromes indicate that glucose is preferred by Ehrlich ascites tumour cells as energy substrate . Glucose decreased the rate of glutamine utilization by 34 % . On the other hand , glutaminolysis did not inhibit glycolysis . Sensitivity analysis of the influence of source - term and environmental parameters on the radiological risk of coal - fired plants . A sensitivity analysis was undertaken to determine the influence of different source - term and environmental parameters on the radiological risks from a coal - fired plant ( CFP ) . It was found that the release rate of radionuclides and the effective release height most significantly influence radiological risk . Site characteristics , such as rain scavenging coefficients and food acquirement habits , have a lesser influence , and some parameters , such as time delay before ingestion of contaminated food , have practically no influence on the radiological impact of a CFP . The contribution to radiation risks of different exposure modes ( i . e . inhalation , ingestion and contact with ground surface ) were also analyzed , as well as of specific radionuclides and human body organs . Results of the sensitivity analysis were interpreted in terms of the characteristics of the fuel , facilities and site of a CFP . It is concluded that by proper choice of coal , furnace , ash filtration and stack height , as well as by proper siting , the radiological impact of a CFP can be drastically reduced . Cigarette smoking and alveolar bone height in subjects with a high standard of oral hygiene . Smokers and non - smokers were compared with respect to alveolar bone height . The study covered 235 subjects aged 21 - 60 years , 72 of whom were smokers . Oral hygiene status and dental care habits were above average and of equal standard in both groups ( PlI = 0 . 9 ) . Alveolar bone height was assessed on radiographs and expressed as % of the root length . Alveolar bone height was significantly reduced in smokers as compared to non - smokers , the mean + / - SEM being 77 . 9 + / - 1 . 3 % and 82 . 8 + / - 0 . 6 % , respectively ( P less than 0 . 001 ) . Regression analysis suggested that periodontal breakdown judged from loss of alveolar bone over time was more accelerated in smokers than non - smokers . The lower bone height in smokers remained when age and oral hygiene were allowed for . It is concluded that smoking is a risk factor for periodontal health . Growth state - dependent regulation of protein kinase C in normal and transformed murine cells . We determined whether growth state can influence the action of protein kinase C by measuring protein kinase C activity in growing and stationary cultures of normal and transformed cells . Two approaches were used to measure protein kinase C : assay of intact cells for inhibition of epidermal growth factor ( EGF ) binding in response to phorbol dibutyrate ( PDBu ) ; and assay of detergent extracts for total calcium , phospholipid - dependent kinase activity . In extracts of growing and stationary Swiss 3T3 cells , the total amount of protein kinase C activity was similar , indicating that growth state does not alter the level of enzyme in the cell . The short - term response of Swiss 3T3 cells to an activator of protein kinase C also appeared to be independent of growth state , since the 50 % effective dose for PDBu inhibition of EGF binding to its receptor was approximately 7 nM for both growth conditions . In contrast , the response of cells to long - term treatment with PDBu was significantly different depending upon the initial growth state of the cells . In both growth states , PDBu caused loss of protein kinase C activity , which reflected a loss in protein mass as determined by immunoblotting with antiserum to protein kinase C . However , the maximum decrease approached 100 % in stationary cultures versus approximately 75 % in growing cells . Protein kinase C levels in several transformed cell lines were subject to down modulation in a similar growth state - dependent manner . Further , the inhibition of EGF binding by tumor promoters following long - term treatment of Swiss 3T3 cells with PDBu also varied with growth state . In down modulated growing cells , PDBu caused almost complete inhibition of EGF binding , whereas in down modulated stationary cells , minimal inhibition of EGF binding by PDBu was observed . These results suggest that prolonged treatment with tumor promoters alters the sensitivity of cells to activators of protein kinase C in a growth state - dependent manner . Suppression and re - expression of transformed phenotype in hybrids of HA - ras - 1 - transformed rat - 1 cells and early - passage rat embryonic fibroblasts . Rat - 1 cells which had been transformed with the activated Ha - ras - 1 gene from human EJ bladder carcinoma cells were fused with diploid embryonic rat fibroblasts . Four selected cell hybrids expressed the human transforming gene product p21 at levels of 10 to 30 % compared to 100 % in the transformed parental cells . The hybrid cells , however , exhibited normal morphology , anchorage requirement for proliferation , and largely extended latency periods of tumorigenicity in newborn rats . Tumorigenic hybrid derivatives contained lower numbers of chromosomes than the tetraploid parental hybrids . DNA of the non - tumorigenic cell hybrids transformed Rat - 1 cells to anchorage - independent proliferation as expected for the transforming human Ha - ras gene present in the donor DNA . We conclude that the transforming properties of the activated Ha - ras gene in Rat - 1 cells can be suppressed at the post - translational level by the presence of the genome from diploid embryonic rat fibroblasts but additional controls of expression of the transforming gene are likely to exist . Normal cells contain suppressor gene ( s ) which safeguard these cells against transformation by the product of the transforming Ha - ras - 1 oncogene . Antishock trousers : a collective review . Antishock trousers have become an integral part of emergency medical care for many traumatic and life - threatening emergencies . This article represents a summary of the current state of knowledge concerning the use of this device . A brief history of the development of antishock garments is discussed . This is followed by a discussion of human clinical studies and results of clinical research on hemodynamics , respiration , use in head injury , and effects on vascular hemostasis . Indications , contraindications , complications , and recommended procedure for use are discussed . Based on randomized prospective studies , antishock garments have not , as yet , been shown to improve patient morbidity or mortality . Proper use of antishock garments requires an understanding of both their function and their limitations . Measurement of serum glycosylated proteins and glycosylated low density lipoprotein fraction in diabetes mellitus . A simple method was developed for estimating serum glycosylated protein levels using gel filtration with Bio - Gel P6 by determining the protein and sugar content in the void volume fraction . The glycosylated protein levels ( GSP ) correlated well with fasting blood sugar levels and glycosylated albumin level ( G - ALB ) determined by affinity chromatography with Blue Sepharose CL6B . The glycosylation level of heparin - citrate precipitable fraction of serum which predominantly contained low density lipoprotein ( G - LDL ) also correlated well with GSP and LDL - cholesterol levels . Significantly different values were obtained for GSP , G - ALB , and G - LDL between normals and diabetics . Combined aortic , mitral and tricuspid surgery : results in 78 patients . Between 1968 and 1984 , 78 patients ( mean age 43 , range 14 to 65 years ) underwent combined aortic , mitral and tricuspid surgery ( 22 triple valve replacements , 56 aortic valve replacements with tricuspid conservative surgery and mitral valve replacement ( N = 48 ) , or commissuroplasty ( N = 8 ) . Pre - operative consequences of valvular disease ( mainly mixed valve disease ) were severe as assessed by functional class ( 72 pts in III or IV NYHA ) , cardiomegaly ( CTR : 62 + / - 6 % ) , increase of mean pulmonary arterial and wedge pressures ( respectively 30 + / - 12 and 19 + / - 6 mmHg ) decrease in cardiac index ( 2 . 1 + / - 0 . 5 l min - 1 m - 2 ) , LV dilatation ( LV end diastolic volume : 184 + / - 86 ml m - 2 ) and impairment of LV systolic function ( LV ejection fraction : 50 + / - 12 % ) . Operative mortality rate was 11 . 5 % . The 69 survivors were all followed up , for a mean of 56 months ( 2 to 207 ) . 16 late deaths occurred . Actuarial survival rate at 10 years was 58 . 4 % , and greatly influenced by pre - operative NYHA class . Linearized rates of thromboembolic events , valve thrombosis and haemorrhage were respectively 6 . 4 , 1 . 5 and 1 . 2 % pt - 1 yr - 1 . Those of infective endocarditis , periprosthetic leak , reoperation and valve failure were 0 . 6 , 3 . 3 and 4 . 9 % pt - 1 yr - 1 respectively . At 9 years , 42 % of the patients were in NYHA class I or II and free from complications . Torsade de pointes during loading with amiodarone . Torsade de pointes represents a potential complication of chronic amiodarone therapy . Several reports have emphasized the need for a loading dose in order to achieve therapeutic blood levels rapidly . We report a case of torsade de pointes following a single oral dose of amiodarone ( 1400 mg or 30 mg kg - 1 ) administered after short intravenous loading for prevention of paroxysmal atrial flutter . Torsades de pointes were preceded and associated with marked QT prolongation and bradycardia . This report suggests that careful monitoring of patients undergoing oral amiodarone loading is necessary . Conjunctival hypoxia in diabetes mellitus . A frequently cited theory for the pathogenesis of neovascularization in diabetic retinopathy is that retinal hypoxia and / or ischemia release a factor which stimulates neovascularization . To the authors ' knowledge , there is no direct in vivo evidence in the human proving this theory . One hundred and twenty - two diabetic subjects were studied to see whether worsening retinopathy was associated with changes in conjunctival oxygen tension ( pO2 ) . Diabetics without retinopathy had a conjunctival pO2 which was similar to an age - matched normal population . Diabetics with only background retinopathy had a significantly lower conjunctival pO2 than those without retinopathy ( P less than 0 . 01 ) . Diabetics with proliferative retinopathy showed a conjunctival pO2 that was significantly lower than either of the first two groups ( P less than 0 . 05 ) . The lowest value of all was found in patients with rubeosis iridis . Duration of diabetes alone did not correlate significantly to conjunctival pO2 . These findings support the hypoxic theory of diabetic neovascular retinopathy . Unsatisfactory forehead scar following face lift . The W - plasty scar revision technique has been found to be effective in the repair of the difficult and cosmetically unsatisfactory hairline scar following the ill - advised face lift technique that excises forehead skin . Clinical evaluation of radiotherapy for Graves ' ophthalmopathy . Seventeen patients with moderately severe ophthalmopathy due to Graves ' disease were treated by cobalt or supervoltage radiotherapy . All patients complained of diplopia . The mean proptosis value was 21 . 4 mm . Three patients ( 18 % ) showed good response , 7 ( 41 % ) moderate and 7 minimal or no response . Improvement was noted mainly in soft tissue changes and diplopia , while proptosis decreased in only 5 patients . All except one patient who had marked extraocular muscle involvement revealed by computed tomography responded to treatment . These data indicate that radiotherapy may be indicated in patients with progressive ophthalmopathy , especially in those who are associated with extraocular muscle enlargement . The origin of yolk - DNA in Xenopus laevis . Xenopus laevis serum and plasma was found to contain an average of 25 microgram DNA / ml . Isolated X . laevis oocytes incubated in medium containing 25 microgram DNA / ml labeled with either 125I , 32P or 14C and from three different sources ( bovine , E . coli and X . laevis ) , incorporated the label at an average rate of 0 . 11 ng . mm - 2 . hr - 1 . Sucrose gradient fractionation of oocytes revealed that 40 - 75 % of the acid - precipitable label incorporated was associated with the yolk platelets . Additional incubations of oocytes in unlabeled medium demonstrated that the DNA incorporated into the yolk platelets was undergoing turnover ; only 20 % of the yolk - associated DNA was still present after a one - week incubation . Our data suggest that yolk - DNA arises by the adventitious uptake of DNA present in the maternal serum by vitellogenic oocytes . New functions of epidermal growth factor : stimulation of capillary endothelial cell migration and matrix dependent proliferation . The proliferative response of bovine retinal capillary endothelial cells to EGF is dependent upon attaching the cells to a matrix of fibronectin . Bovine capillary endothelial cells are also stimulated to actively migrate when exposed to EGF in vitro . These activities provide an explanation for the angiogenic properties of EGF in vivo . Capillary cell migration and proliferation are proposed as sensitive quantifiable bioassays to explore the functional domains of the EGF molecule . Studies on the inactivation of these properties of EGF by specific cleavage of the molecule with CNBr or proteases suggest that an intact loop composed in part by amino acid residues 20 to 31 is essential for at least some functions . The effect of aflatoxin B1 on the utilization of serum calcium . The mathematical analysis for plasma disappearance curve of aflatoxicosed animals , subsequently injected with 45Ca was determined . The analysis showed that the three main compartments of the calcium pool ( plasma , bone and the labile calcium pool on the surface of bone and soft tissues ) had been affected . Specifically , the fractional rate constant for migration of 45Ca from plasma pool to the labile pool had been diminished to its third value . This led to a corresponding reduction in the calcium content of the bone ash . The probable mechanism by which aflatoxin B1 affects calcium dynamics may be interpreted by the inhibitory effect of aflatoxin in the hydroxylation mechanism of vitamin D3 into an active intermediate . During aflatoxicosis ( induction of 15 days ) the animals entered a state of calcium deficiency , secondary to intestinal absorption inhibition . This was followed by bone resorption and disturbance of the fractional removal rate constant among different calcium compartments . Low - level X - radiation effects on functional vascular changes in Syrian hamster cheek pouch epithelium during hydrocarbon carcinogenesis . Effects of repeated low - level X radiation on functional microvascular changes in hamster cheek pouch epithelium during and following carcinogenesis by 7 , 12 - dimethylbenz [ a ] anthracene ( DMBA ) were studied . Prior studies showed enhancement of such carcinogenesis by repeated 20 rad head and neck X - radiation exposures , and it was proposed that one possible mechanism was radiogenic alteration of the functional microvasculature in a manner which favored subsequent tumor development . Hamsters were treated with either radiation , DMBA , radiation + DMBA , or no treatment . Animals were sacrificed at 3 - week intervals from 0 to 39 weeks after treatments began . Pouch vascular volume and permeability changes were studied by fractional distributions of radiotracers and were analyzed by a variety of statistical methods which explored the vascular parameters , treatment types , elapsed time , presence of the carcinogen , and histopathologic changes . All treatments resulted in significant changes in vascular volume with time , while only DMBA treatments alone resulted in significant changes in vascular permeability with time . Prior to the appearances of frank neoplasms , volumetric changes in DMBA only and radiation only groups were similar , while volume changes in DMBA + radiation groups increased slowly to a peak later than in other groups and then declined steadily to levels similar to the radiation only group . As in prior studies , there were significant vascular volume differences between DMBA and DMBA + radiation groups of tumor - bearing cheek pouches . DMBA maxima were significantly higher than those of DMBA + radiation . Radiation significantly affected DMBA - associated vascular volume and permeability changes during carcinogenesis . Several possible explanations for the relationship of these changes to the enhancement of DMBA carcinogenesis include : radiation blocking normal capillary proliferative and / or dilatory responses to inflammation secondary to neoplastic changes ; radiation - induced focal increases in the pericapillary connective tissue histohematic barrier , stimulating angiogenesis but reducing nutrient diffusion ; radiation exposures sensitizing vascular endothelium to subsequent angiogenic stimulation from premalignant tissues ; DMBA vascular and epithelial effects partially or completely blocking radiation effects on epithelial and / or endothelial cells ; and radiation damage to vessel walls partially or fully inhibiting normal physiologic mechanisms of repairing DMBA damage to the vessels . Immunoglobulins associated with elevated riboflavin binding by plasma from cancer patients . Plasma from 182 patients with different malignant diseases was tested for riboflavin binding by immunoglobulins , which have been recently identified as major carriers of this micronutrient . A wide range of binding ( 5 . 9 to 130 pmole / ml plasma ) was observed , and significant elevations were found for patients having breast cancer ( 21 . 2 + / - 1 . 9 , P less than 0 . 05 ) and melanoma ( 25 . 7 + / - 1 . 9 , P less than 0 . 001 ) compared to controls ( 15 . 5 + / - 1 . 9 ) . The proteins responsible for a majority of the higher binding were identified as immunoglobulins , based on their elution from gel filtration columns and the removal of 57 - 88 % of the non - albumin binding by treating of plasma with Protein A - agarose . The binding was only weakly related to the total concentration of immunoglobulins ( r = 0 . 11 by linear regression analysis ) , however , and is apparently due to a subclass that is elevated in some types of cancer . Elevated levels of these immunoglobulins may contribute to the lower urinary levels and clearance of riboflavin in cancer . Mast cells and tumors . The specific enhancement of tumor proliferation in vitro . Mast cells were found to be unique among the peritoneal leukocytes by virtue of their capacity to enhance profoundly the proliferation of a variety of tumors in vitro . This phenomenon occurs at mast cell / tumor ratios which reflect the stoichiometry of host cell / tumor relationships in vivo . The growth factor was found to reside in mast cell granules and was identified as heparin by sequential purification and enzymatic degradation . This cellular interaction was tumor - specific , although isolated granules could enhance fibroblast proliferation . The findings are discussed in relation to previous morphologic studies , reports of in vitro mast - cell - mediated tumor cytotoxicity , and the role of mast cells in angiogenesis and connective tissue proliferation . Management of the tortuous internal carotid artery . The tortuous internal carotid artery as the basis of cerebral vascular insufficiency is a controversial entity , as such lesions frequently occur without neurologic symptoms . However , some tortuous vessels are associated with significant carotid atherosclerotic disease requiring a specific surgical approach . This formed the basis of our report . Symptoms of cerebrovascular insufficiency in association with a tortuous internal carotid artery was encountered in 27 of 853 carotid endarterectomies over a 22 year period . Stenosis of hemodynamic significance was noted in nine patients and irregularities or ulceration were noted in the rest . With the standard technique of carotid endarterectomy , removal of plaque from a tortuous vessel leads to loss of the stenting effect provided by the plaque such that angulation occlusion is likely to occur . The optimal reconstruction in our experience is eversion endarterectomy by transection and lower reimplantation of the internal carotid artery on the common carotid artery . Our experience with 17 such procedures in 15 patients has been presented . Postpartum rubella immunization : association with development of prolonged arthritis , neurological sequelae , and chronic rubella viremia . Six women developed chronic long - term arthropathy after postpartum immunization against rubella . All individuals developed acute polyarticular arthritis within 12 days to three weeks postimmunization and have had continuing chronic or recurrent arthralgia or arthritis for two to seven years after vaccination . Acute neurological manifestations , consisting of carpal tunnel syndrome or multiple paresthesiae , developed postvaccination in three women . Two have developed continuing active or chronic recurrent episodes of blurred vision , paresthesiae , and painful limb syndromes together with recurrent joint symptoms . Chronic rubella viremia has been detected in peripheral blood mononuclear cell ( MNC ) populations in five of the six women up to six years after vaccination . In addition rubella virus was isolated from breast milk MNCs in one individual at nine months postvaccination and from peripheral blood MNCs in two of four breast - fed infants studied at 12 - 18 months of age . Immune responses to rubella virus studied at sequential intervals after vaccination correlated with development of rheumatologic and neurological manifestations . Rapid enzyme analysis of amniotic fluid phospholipids containing choline : a comparison with the lecithin to sphingomyelin ratio in prenatal assessment of fetal lung maturity . The relation between the choline containing surfactant phospholipids lecithin and sphingomyelin in amniotic fluid and fetal lung maturity is well established . An enzymatic method that had been automated and optimised for use on a centrifugal analyser was used to measure the total choline containing phospholipids in amniotic fluid . The total time taken for this assay was 10 minutes . The results obtained from 100 patient samples , using this procedure , compared favourably with the results obtained by the thin layer chromatography procedure used to determine the lecithin to sphingomyelin ratio ( r = 0 . 93 ) . A clinical study of 60 patients showed that this assay predicted prenatal respiratory distress syndrome as well as the lecithin to sphingomyelin ratios . The advantage of this assay over existing procedures is that it requires minimum preparation of the specimen and no extraction , is quick , and shows a high degree of precision . [ Histophysiology and histopathology of the adrenals in experimental hypokinesia ] . In experiments on male rats in the course of 3 - month hypokinesia phasic changes were observed in the relative adrenal gland weight , in the volume of the cell nuclei of the glomerular , fasicular zones and the medulla , in the activity of the succinic dehydrogenase , alkaline and acid phosphatases , in the RNA and catecholamine content . These changes are associated with variations in the secretion and biosynthesis of the hormones of the cortical and the medullary layer of the adrenal glands during the hypokinetic stress development . Cardiac gap junction configuration after an uncoupling treatment as a function of time . Rabbit ventricle either was fixed in glutaraldehyde without injury ( control ) or was injured before fixation , presumably causing electrical uncoupling of the gap junctions . All tissue was then processed for freeze - fracture . Replicas of control gap junctions exhibited irregular packing of the P - face particles and E - face pits . Average center - to - center spacing of the particles was 10 . 5 nm . Tissue fixed 1 - 5 min after injury showed clumping of gap junctional particles and pits . Within the clumps , the particles and pits were hexagonally packed and the center - to - center spacing of the particles averaged 9 . 5 nm . In tissue fixed 15 - 30 min after injury , the clumps of gap junctional particles had coalesced into a homogeneous structure in most junctions . The packing of the particles and pits was hexagonal and the spacing of the particles averaged 9 . 5 nm . A few pieces of rabbit atrium were frozen without prior fixation or cryoprotection to try to assess the effect of glutarldehyde fixation on gap junction structure . In this tissue the gap junctional particles were irregularly packed and their spacing averaged 10 . 0 nm . Absence of effect of prenatal ethanol on adult emotionality and ethanol consumption in rats . Lower peak blood ethanol concentrations after 1 and 2 g of ethanol per kg were found in pregnant rats than in virgin females . No significant differences in adult " emotionality " or ethanol consumption were found in rats exposed to prenatal alcohol and in pair - fed and untreated controls . Tropical splenomegaly syndrome in Zambia : further observations and effects of cycloguanil and proguanil . Nineteen Zambian patients with the tropical splenomegaly syndrome and sinusoidal lymphocytosis on liver biopsy were studied . The association of macrobulinaemia with the tropical splenomegaly syndrome has again been confirmed . Sixteen patients were treated with antimalarials - 12 with cycloguanil pamoate alone , 3 with cycloguanil and proguanil , and 1 with proguanil alone . Twelve patients were observed for periods of sufficient length for the drug effect to be assessed , and in 11 there was a good response in terms of decrease in spleen size . Cycloguanil pamoate may be of value both for prophylaxis and treatment in areas where tropical splenomegaly syndrome is endemic . Regulation of glucosyl - and fructosyltransferase synthesis by continuous cultures of Streptococcus mutans . Streptococcus mutans strains Ingbritt , and its derivative B7 which had been passaged through monkeys , have been used to investigate how the synthesis of extracellular glucosyl - and fructosyltransferases is regulated . The most active enzyme from carbon - limited continuous cultures was a fructosyltransferase ; enzymes catalysing the formation of water - insoluble glucans from sucrose were relatively inactive . Dextransucrase ( EC 2 . 4 . 1 . 5 ) , which catalyses soluble glucan synthesis , was most active in the supernatant fluid from cultures grown with excess glucose , fructose or sucrose , but full activity was detected only when the enzyme was incubated with both sucrose and dextran . Little dextransucrase activity was detected in carbon - limited cultures . It is concluded that glucosyl - and fructosyltransferases are constitutive enzymes in that they are synthesized at similar rates during growth with an excess of the substrate or of the products of the reactions which they catalyse . Although the Ingbritt strain was originally isolated from a carious lesion , it is now a poor source of glucosyltransferase activity . Glucosyltransferases were extremely active in cultures of a recent clinical isolate , strain 3209 , and were apparently induced during growth with excess glucose . Differences between the arterial and the venous pathomorphology in Buerger ' s disease . Morphological lesions were found to be different in arteries and in veins , in 9 cases of Buerger ' s disease . The arterial lesions were not characteristic and consisted of non - specific inflammation , thrombosis and obliteration which also occur in many other disease . In contrast , in addition to wall infiltration and thrombosis , the veins showed microabscesses and giant cell granulomas , which we believe to be absent in all other known diseases . The affected venous segment exhibited a variety of lesions . In the earliest period , the morphological aspect of inflammation in arteries and veins was fairly similar . In a late periods , that is those of vascular obliteration , the arteries and veins did not show any distinguishing morphological differences . Scanning electron microscopy of vascular casts in experimental ocular vasoproliferation . Scanning electron microscopy of vascular casts was used to investigate three experimental models of neovascularization . In each experimental situation , the casts provided a valuable three dimensional representation of the newly formed blood vessels and permitted subclassification of the vessels within normal and proliferating vascular networks . They defined also the predominant origin of new vessels from venules and capillaries , and enabled the evolution of proliferating vessels into arterioles and venules to be documented . Although vascular casts must be interpreted with caution in light of the possibility of incomplete filling and other artifacts , they are a valuable tool in the study of ocular vasoproliferation . Identification of the putative transforming protein of the human T - cell leukemia viruses HTLV - I and HTLV - II . The human T - cell leukemia viruses HTLV - I and HTLV - II are unique among the transforming retroviruses of vertebrates in their ability to transform human T cells in vitro and in their close association with human malignancies ( T - cell lymphomas and leukemia ) . Their genomes are relatively simple , containing the genes gag , pol , env , and a 3 ' region termed " X . " This 3 ' region may be responsible for the transforming potential of the viruses . The existence of proteins encoded by the 3 ' region has been postulated on the basis of multiple open reading frames . In the present study this region is shown to contain a gene encoding a protein of 40 kilodaltons in HTLV - I and 37 kilodaltons in HTLV - II . It is proposed that these proteins be called , respectively , p40xI and p37xII . Participation of p53 cellular tumour antigen in transformation of normal embryonic cells . The cellular tumour antigen p53 is found at elevated levels in a wide variety of transformed cells ( for reviews see refs 1 , 2 ) . Very little is yet known about the precise relationship of p53 to malignant transformation . Although the increase in p53 levels could be a secondary by - product of the transformed state , it is equally possible that p53 is actively involved in altering cellular growth properties , especially as it has been implicated in the regulation of normal cell proliferation . We sought to test whether p53 could behave in a manner similar to known genes in a biological test system , and we demonstrate here that p53 can cooperate with the activated Ha - ras oncogene to transform normal embryonic cells . The resultant foci contain cells of a markedly altered morphology which produce high levels of p53 . Cell lines established from such foci elicit tumours in syngeneic animals . Dynorphin is contained within hippocampal mossy fibers : immunochemical alterations after kainic acid administration and colchicine - induced neurotoxicity . Antisera raised against synthetic dynorphin or [ Leu5 ] enkephalin demonstrate immunostaining in hippocampal mossy fibers and in dentate granule cells . However , dynorphin immunoreactivity ( ir ) appears to be denser in immunocytochemical preparations and is quantitatively greater by radioimmunoassay than enkephalin - ir . Immunostaining with dynorphin antisera is eliminated by adsorption with 1 - 100 microM dynorphin - 17 whereas immunostaining with enkephalin antisera is eliminated by adsorption with 1 - 100 microM [ Leu5 ] enkephalin , dynorphin - 17 , dynorphin - ( 1 - 13 ) , or alpha - neo - endorphin . Intrahippocampal colchicine injections , which selectively destroy dentate granule cells , significantly decrease the dynorphin - ir and enkephalin - ir levels in rat hippocampus . Intraventricularly administered kainic acid , which selectively destroys CA3 - 4 pyramidal cells , results in an increase of enkephalin immunostaining in mossy fibers and a significant increase in enkephalin - ir by radioimmunoassay in whole hippocampus . The enkephalin - ir cells and fibers in entorhinal / perirhinal cortex , which innervate rat hippocampus and dentate gyrus , do not contain dynorphin - ir . Interaction between cellular and viral genes in the expression of the RSV - induced transformation - specific cell - surface antigen VCSA . Transformation of BHK hamster fibroblasts by an env - strain of Rous sarcoma virus ( RSV ) leads to the appearance at the cell surface of a virus - induced nonvirion antigen ( VCSA ) , specific for transformation , whose expression is controlled by the transforming src gene . Previous work has shown that a rabbit anti - VCSA serum lyses specifically , in the presence of complement , 51Cr - labelled RSV - transformed cells from different animal species . Now , by competition experiments with a panel of different unlabelled cells we show that the VCSA expressed on RSV - transformed hamster fibroblasts is a complex of at least three distinct antigenic specificities : ( 1 ) one expressed on all RSV - transformed fibroblasts , regardless their species and the subgroup or strain of the transforming virus ; ( 2 ) one cross - reacting with a cell - surface antigen ( CSA ) expressed at various degrees on untransformed avian fibroblasts , but not on mammalian fibroblasts ; ( 3 ) one species - specific , present only on RSV - transformed hamster fibroblasts . It is concluded that VCSA is a complex of several antigenic determinants , and that some of these differ in different cells transformed by RSV . This observation indicates that VCSA expression at the cell surface is likely to be the result of the interaction between the viral src gene product pp60src with host cell gene ( s ) or gene product ( s ) , rather than the simple expression of this molecule at the cell surface . Angiogenesis : initiation and control . From in vivo experiments using new methods such as the rabbit cornea , it is now becoming clear that the growth of a capillary involves an ordered sequence of events that includes lysis of the basement membrane of a parent venule , directional migration of capillary endothelial cells toward the angiogenic stimulus , lumen formation , development of branches , and anastomosis of the tip of one tube with another to form a loop . It is also clear that diffusible angiogenic stimuli can be released not only from most solid tumors , but also from at least three non - neoplastic cells . These include activated macrophages , sensitized lymphocytes , and adipocytes . Other normal tissues can also stimulate angiogenesis , but the type of cell giving rise to the angiogenic stimulus is unknown , and the period of angiogenic stimulation is brief . With the recent ability to clone capillary endothelial cells and to carry them in long - term culture , it has been possible to further delineate the mechanism of capillary growth . In vitro studies have shown that the mast cell seems to behave as a helper cell for capillary endothelial cells , in some way speeding up their rate of directional migration . At this writing , heparin appears to be the principal mast cell factor responsible for this effect on capillary endothelial cells . One theoretical possibility is that mast cells may prepare the matrix , perhaps by slow release of heparin , so that capillary sprouts can more easily move through it toward their angiogenic target . While the study of angiogenesis as a phenomenon is still in an early phase , it has become possible , by using a combination of in vitro and in vivo techniques , to more thoroughly understand the initiation and control of capillary growth . Role of interleukin 1 in antigen - specific T cell proliferation . The role of interleukin 1 ( IL 1 ) in human antigen - specific T cell proliferation was examined . Nylon wool - purified T cells proliferated in the presence of autologous monocytes ( Mo . ) pulsed for 18 h with tetanus toxoid ( TT ) antigen ( Mo . TT ) . Irradiation of Mo . TT with ultraviolet ( UV ) light ( 72 J / m2 ) abolished their capacity to support T cell proliferation and drastically reduced their capacity to secrete IL 1 after stimulation with Staphylococcus albus . The defect in antigen presentation induced by UV irradiation of Mo . TT was reversed in a dose - dependent manner by the addition of two different preparations containing human interleukin 1 ( IL 1 ) . The first preparation consisted of supernatants of Mo . stimulated with Con A for 18 hr and in which Con A activity was blocked by alpha - D - methyl - mannoside ( Mo . - Con A - Sup ) . The second preparation consisted of human IL 1 partially purified from supernatants of human peripheral blood mononuclear cells stimulated with S . albus . This IL 1 copurified with human leukocyte pyrogen ( LP ) and was termed IL 1 / LP . Both IL 1 - containing preparations enhanced the response of C57BL / 6 mouse thymocytes to phytohemagglutinin . A rabbit antibody to human IL 1 / LP inhibited the capacity of T cells to proliferate in response to Mo . TT and inhibited the capacity of Mo . - Con A - Sup to reconstitute the T cell response to UV - irradiated Mo . TT . IL 1 / LP was not necessary for T cells to recognize the immunogenic moiety presented by Mo . , because monolayers of UV - irradiated Mo . TT were equivalent to monolayers of unirradiated MO . TT in their capacity to adsorb TT - reactive T cells specifically . Furthermore , the addition of rabbit antibody to IL 1 / LP did not interfere with the capacity of UV - irradiated Mo . TT to adsorb TT - reactive T cells . The results obtained in this study indicate that IL 1 is involved in optimal antigen - driven proliferation of human T lymphocytes . Ca + + distribution after Na + pump inhibition in cultured neonatal rat myocardial cells . The influence of inhibition of the Na + pump , with secondary stimulation of Na + - Ca + + exchange , on cellular Ca + + distribution is examined using the on - line scintillation disk technique and cultured neonatal rat myocardial cells . Under control conditions , La + + + displaced 78 . 1 + / - 1 . 13 % ( SEM ) of the total cell associated 45Ca . Application of 1 mm ouabain or reduction of [ K + ] o to 0 . 5 mM resulted in a net increase of 10 . 6 + / - 1 . 3 % and 13 . 8 + / - 2 % , respectively , in total cell - associated Ca + + . Of this added 45Ca , 75 . 9 + / - 2 . 7 % and 78 . 4 + / - 2 . 1 % , respectively remained La + + + - displaceable . The 45Ca - binding characteristics of isolated sarcolemma , prepared from the cultured neonatal rat myocardial cells using the gas dissection technique , were examined . When treated with either ouabain or low [ K + ] o solutions , sarcolemmal 45Ca binding did not change . This result indicates that functional , intact tissue is necessary to observe the Ca + + increase . Treatment of the cells with verapamil before and during ouabain exposure failed to inhibit the ouabain - induced increase in cell - associated 45Ca . The evidence indicates that inhibition of the Na + - pump , and secondary stimulation of Na + - Ca + + exchange , result in a net increase of 11 - 15 % in cell - associated Ca + + , 78 % of which remains La + + + - displaceable and is , therefore , localized to the sarcolemma - glycocalyx complex . Phosphorylation - induced mobility shift in phospholamban in sodium dodecyl sulfate - polyacrylamide gels . Evidence for a protein structure consisting of multiple identical phosphorylatable subunits . Phosphorylation of purified phospholamban isolated from canine cardiac sarcoplasmic reticulum vesicles decreased the electrophoretic mobility of the protein in sodium dodecyl sulfate ( SDS ) - polyacrylamide gels . Different mobility forms of phospholamban in SDS gels were visualized both by direct protein staining and by autoradiography . Unphosphorylated phospholamban migrated with an apparent Mr = 25 , 000 in SDS gels ; maximal phosphorylation of phospholamban by cAMP - or Ca2 + - calmodulin - dependent protein kinase increased the apparent Mr to 27 , 000 . Partial phosphorylation of phospholamban by either protein kinase gave intermediate mobility forms of molecular weights between 25 , 000 and 27 , 000 , suggesting that more than one phosphorylation site was present on the holoprotein for each activity . Boiling of phospholamban in SDS dissociated the holoprotein into an apparently homogeneous class of low molecular weight " monomers . " Only two mobility forms of monomeric phospholamban were observed in SDS gels after phosphorylation by cAMP - dependent protein kinase , corresponding to 9 - kDa dephospho - and 11 - kDa phosphoproteins . All of the 9 - kDa protein could be phosphorylated and converted into the 11 - kDa mobility form , suggesting the presence of only one site of phosphorylation on a single type of monomer for cAMP - dependent protein kinase . Simultaneous phosphorylation of monomeric phospholamban by cAMP - dependent protein kinase and Ca2 + - calmodulin - dependent protein kinase gave an additional mobility form of the protein , suggesting that different sites of phosphorylation were present for each activity on each monomer . Incomplete dissociation of the holoprotein by boiling it in a relatively low concentration of SDS facilitated the detection of five major mobility forms of the protein in SDS gels , and the mobilities of all of these forms were decreased by phosphorylation . We propose that the high molecular weight form of phospholamban is a multimer of electrophoretically indistinguishable monomers , each of which contains a different phosphorylation site for cAMP - dependent protein kinase activity and Ca2 + - calmodulin - dependent protein kinase activity . Phosphorylation of phospholamban at multiple sites is responsible for the various mobility forms of the holoprotein detected in SDS - polyacrylamide gels . Protection from experimental ocular herpetic keratitis by a heat - killed virus vaccine . New Zealand white rabbits were given limbal inoculations of a heat - killed suspension of herpes simplex virus ( HSV ) in a lysate of human embryonic kidney cells . At intervals of four to 14 days , the animals were challenged by intrastromal inoculation with 10 , 000 plaque - forming units of viable HSV . Epithelial keratitis , disciform edema , and necrotizing keratitis with neovascularization of the cornea developed in control animals . Epithelial keratitis and corneal edema also developed in the immunized animals during the first week after virus challenge , but these symptoms rapidly resolved during the following weeks . The absence of iritis , neovascularization , and necrotizing keratitis in the corneas of the immunized animals was particularly striking . Cells transformed by Rous sarcoma virus release transforming growth factors . Chicken embryo fibroblasts and hamster BHK cells transformed by Rous sarcoma virus ( RSV ) release in their culture media growth factors which enhance markedly anchorage - independent colony formation in gelified medium , at the restrictive temperature ( 41 degrees 5 C ) , of chicken embryo fibroblasts ( CEF ) infected by RSV mutants with a ts mutation of the src gene . This action is not observed with uninfected CEF , and , therefore , appears to require some expression of the viral src gene in the target cells . The enhancing factors are proteins related to the family of the transforming growth factors ( TGFs ) by their molecular weight ( about 20 kd ) , their heat and acid resistance , and their sensitivity to dithiothreitol . They do not compete with 125I EGF for binding on the EGF receptors of the membrane of A431 cells . As chicken embryo fibroblasts are devoid of EGF receptors , their activity is not potentiated by EGF . The genetics of transformation by SV 40 . Experiments using the tsA 58 allele of the SV 40 - A gene have demonstrated that the SV 40 large T - antigen is strictly required both for immortalization and induction anchorage independence of cells . It has been suggested that the immortalized phenotype is mediated by an extra cellular factor . The synthesis and / or the excretion of this factor in a medium is controlled by the A gene . Effects of growth temperature , 47 - megadalton plasmid , and calcium deficiency on the outer membrane protein porin and lipopolysaccharide composition of Yersinia pestis EV76 . The expression of several virulence determinants of Yersinia pestis is known to be dependent on the in vitro growth temperature . One of these , calcium dependence , is associated with the presence of a 47 - megadalton plasmid . We have examined the effects of incubation temperature , calcium in the growth medium , the presence of the 47 - megadalton plasmid on the outer membrane protein , and the lipopolysaccharide composition of Y . pestis EV76 . When cells were grown at 37 degrees C as opposed to 26 degrees C , a change in lipopolysaccharide composition and a decrease in the amount of an outer membrane protein ( protein E ) were observed . The lipopolysaccharide obtained from cells incubated at 37 degrees C had a lower proportion of 2 keto - 3 - deoxyoctanate , a lower phosphate to 2 - keto - 3 - deoxyoctanate ratio , and an increased gel mobility upon sodium dodecyl sulfate - polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis when compared with lipopolysaccharide obtained from cells grown at 26 degrees C . Because of its growth temperature - related abundance , we investigated the nature of protein E . This protein had physical properties similar to those of other enterobacterial porins , including apparent formation of an oligomer on sodium dodecyl sulfate - polyacrylamide gels when solubilized at low temperature , acidic isoelectric point , and strong noncovalent association with the peptidoglycan . Protein E was purified and shown to form an aqueous channel in planar lipid membranes with a conductance of 1 . 1 nS in 1 M KCl . In addition to growth temperature - related alterations in the lipopolysaccharide and porin components of the outer membrane , the amount of three spots in two - dimensional polyacrylamide gels was shown to be related to the temperature or the presence of calcium during growth . One of these spots was shown to contain residual unmodified portions of two major heat - modifiable proteins which failed to shift to their heat - modified positions on gels , despite solubilization at 100 degrees C for 10 min before electrophoresis . The other two spots were the heat - modified and unmodified forms of another outer membrane protein ( J ) which did not appear in the isoelectric focusing gel of cells grown at 37 degrees C . It is proposed that the appearance of these spots in two - dimensional analyses is related to the lipopolysaccharide composition of the cells from which the outer membrane is derived and reflects lipopolysaccharide - protein interactions or calcium - protein interactions . Protein kinase activities in immune complexes of simian virus 40 large T - antigen and transformation - associated cellular p53 protein . Immune complex kinase assays in the simian virus 40 system were performed by incubation of immunoprecipitates containing tumor antigens with [ gamma - 32P ] ATP , followed by analysis of any phosphoacceptor proteins . These assays yielded mainly the viral large T - antigen and , in particular , the associated cellular p53 as endogenous substrates . The nature of these substrates was confirmed by proteolysis techniques . Under specific conditions , casein could be used as an exogenous substrate as well . The kinase reactions showed preference for ATP and MgCl2 instead of GTP or MnCl2 . Both phosphoserine and phosphothreonine , but in no case phosphotyrosine , were detected after an immune complex kinase reaction . Apparently , several in vivo phosphorylation sites were recognized in vitro in both large T - antigen and p53 , but the presence of some artifactual sites could not be completely excluded . Although contaminating kinases were detectable in the immune complexes , at least the p53 molecules were phosphorylated in vitro in a more specific way . This followed from several characteristics of the immune complex kinase reactions and especially from the strong inhibition of p53 phosphorylation by two anti - large - T monoclonal antibodies . It was shown that large T - antigen showed associated kinase activity , although none of our results could unambiguously demonstrate an intrinsic kinase activity of this protein . Finally , anti - p53 monoclonal antibodies only slightly affected in vitro phosphorylation reactions , whereas a p53 molecule from a simian virus 40 - free , chemically transformed human cell line was not phosphorylated in vitro under any condition tested . Thus , it is highly unlikely that the p53 molecule per se carries intrinsic or even associated kinase activities . Molecular events leading to enhanced glucose transport in Rous sarcoma virus - transformed cells . Transformation by Rous sarcoma virus results in a dramatic increase in the rate at which the transformed cells transport glucose across the cell membrane . The increased transport rate is a consequence of an increased number of transporters in the transformed cells . Utilizing antibody raised against the purified human erythrocyte glucose transporter , we have identified the glucose transporter as a membrane glycoprotein with a monomer Mr of approximately 41 , 000 . The increased rate of glucose transport is dependent on the activity of pp60src , the transforming protein of Rous sarcoma virus . This protein has been shown to be a protein kinase that phosphorylates on tyrosine residues . We have examined the tyrosine phosphorylation of a major cellular protein of Mr 36 , 000 in cells infected with a panel of partially transforming mutants of Rous sarcoma virus . One of these mutants ( CU2 ) increases the rate of glucose transport only slightly and does not render the infected cells fully anchorage independent or tumorigenic ( although other transformation parameters are fully induced ) . Cells infected with this mutant display a 36 , 000 - dalton protein that is phosphorylated to a considerably lesser extent than cells infected with wild - type virus . Analyses of this sort may help to identify the cellular targets of pp60src whose phosphorylation is necessary for the increased glucose transport rate . Preliminary evidence for a pyridine nucleotide cycle in Bordetella pertussis . Preliminary evidence that Bordetella pertussis has a functional pyridine nucleotide cycle was the observation that [ 14C ] - nicotinic acid was rapidly metabolized during its uptake by the bacteria to pyridine nucleotides and nicotinamide . Nicotinamide deamidase activity , necessary for the completion of the cycle by conversion of nicotinamide to nicotinic acid , was found in a soluble extract ( 20 000 X g supernatant ) of B . pertussis cell lysates . Use of monoclonal antibodies to investigate a possible role of thyroglobulin in the pathogenesis of Graves ' ophthalmopathy . One possible mechanism for Graves ' ophthalmopathy is that the progressive orbital inflammation is initiated by formation of thyroglobulin ( Tg ) - anti - Tg immune complexes at sites of Tg binding to extraocular muscle membranes . In this study monoclonal antibodies ( MCAB ) against human Tg were used as probes ( 1 ) to identify Tg in eye muscle membranes prepared from normal subjects and ( 2 ) to measure binding of human Tg and Tg - anti - Tg immune complexes to eye muscle membranes . Reactivity of anti - Tg MCAB with Tg , thyroid , and eye muscle membranes was determined by binding of [ 125I ] anti - Tg monoclonal antibody , an enzyme - linked immunosorbent assay ( ELISA ) , and the indirect immunofluorescence technique . Seven membrane fractions , prepared by differential sucrose gradient centrifugation , were used . Whereas [ 125I ] anti - Tg MCAB bound to all thyroid membrane fractions tested , no [ 125I ] anti - Tg bound to eye muscle membranes . Similarly , reactivity of anti - Tg MCAB with eye muscle membranes was not demonstrated in ELISA or immunofluorescence tests . Although Tg - anti - Tg immune complexes bound to thyroid membranes , such complexes did not bind to eye muscle membranes . Significant binding of [ 125I ] human Tg to eye muscle or thyroid membranes was not demonstrated for any membrane preparation . On the other hand moderate , but significant , binding to skeletal muscle was shown . Similar results were found using an ELISA . Binding of [ 125I ] anti - Tg - Tg complexes of [ 125I ] Tg to thyroid and eye muscle membranes was not affected by the presence of normal human serum , phosphate ions , pH , or incubation temperature , conditions claimed by others to be critical for Tg and Tg - anti - Tg immune complex binding . Since Tg is not present in normal human eye muscle a major role of Tg , or Tg - anti - Tg immune complexes , in the pathogenesis of Graves ' ophthalmopathy appears to have been excluded by these findings . DNA methylation and expression of HLA - DR alpha . B - cell lines established from two individuals with T - cell acute lymphocytic leukemia ( T - ALL ) express HLA - DR antigens , whereas the isogenic T - cells do not . The lack of expression correlates with a lack of detectable HLA - DR mRNA . All of the DR alpha DNA sequences detected by a cloned DR alpha cDNA probe are contained in a BglII fragment which varies slightly in size ( 4 . 0 to 4 . 8 kilobases ) from one individual to another . In DNA from the T - cells not expressing DR alpha mRNA , all of the potential HpaII sites within the BglII fragment appeared to be methylated . In contrast , at least some of these sites were not methylated in DNA from the B - cells expressing high levels of DR alpha mRNA . Treatment of these T - cells with 5 - azacytidine resulted in the induction of DR surface antigen expression , the appearance of DR alpha mRNA , and the partial demethylation of the DR alpha DNA sequences . T - cell lines established from human T - cell leukemia - lymphoma virus associated T - cell neoplasias , in contrast to the T - cell acute lymphocytic leukemia cell lines , expressed both DR antigens and DR alpha mRNA ; the HpaII sites within the BglII fragment of DR alpha DNA of these human T - cell leukemia - lymphoma virus - positive T - cell lines were in all cases at least partially unmethylated . Uncultured peripheral blood T - cells from human T - cell leukemia - lymphoma virus - infected individuals expressed DR antigens at a low level , and the DR alpha locus was partially unmethylated . After 48 h in culture , DR antigen expression was substantially increased , but no significant changes were observed in methylation of the DR alpha locus or in the amount of DR mRNA which was present . This suggests that expression of DR antigens also can be modulated post - transcriptionally . Oesophageal candidiasis and croup in a child with defective neutrophil motility . Severe oesophageal candidiasis and croup due to involvement of the larynx developed insidiously in a girl aged 20 months . There had been delayed separation of the umbilical cord and repeated infections associated with a defect of neutrophil motility . The significance of the early clinical features was not fully appreciated and the diagnosis considered only when stricture of the oesophagus became evident . She was treated with oral ketoconazole 100 mg daily . After one month ' s treatment there was striking radiological improvement apart from the persistence of the oesophageal stricture . The croup resolved completely but there was only partial relief of dysphagia because of the residual stricture . We would emphasis that candidiasis should be anticipated and treated vigorously in children with such a defect of neutrophil motility . Rapid micromeasurement of lactate in whole blood . A new lactate sensor makes it possible to measure the lactate content of whole blood directly in less than 1 min , using only a 10 - microL blood sample . The procedure works equally well with plasma , serum , spinal fluid , other body fluids , or tissue homogenates . The instrument is calibrated with lactate standards between 0 and 15 mMol / L . The sensor , a polarographic enzyme electrode , gives a current which is a linear function of the lactate concentration . There is no interference from glucose , pyruvate , alcohol , ascorbate , anticoagulants , lidocaine , acetaminophen , or other drugs and metabolites commonly encountered in critically ill patients . The lactate sensor is composed of a peroxide sensor and an enzyme transducer membrane . The lactate is stoichiometrically converted to pyruvate and hydrogen peroxide by lactate oxygen oxidoreductase derived from Pediococcus species . The oxygen required for the enzymatic oxidation is supplied via an air - permeable silicone elastomeric membrane used for stirring . Comparison of our new electroenzymatic method with the Boehringer - Mannheim photoenzymatic method gives correlations of 0 . 997 for both whole blood and plasma . The effect of translocations on the cellular myc gene in Burkitt lymphomas . Chromosomal translocations are found to be a characteristic feature of Burkitt lymphomas . Similar translocations are found in mouse plasmacytomas and both diseases involve interchanges between one of the immunoglobulin loci and DNA in the vicinity of the myc gene . The structure of the myc gene has been elucidated from studies on translocated versions of the gene . Activation of the myc gene may play a role in transformation by promoting growth of the cells bearing the rearranged chromosomes . Preparation and physicochemical and immunological characterization of polysaccharide - outer membrane protein complexes of Neisseria meningitidis . A crude complex containing group C polysaccharide , outer membrane proteins , and lipopolysaccharide ( LPS ) was isolated from the cell - free culture liquid of Neisseria meningitidis serogroup C , serotype 2a . Group C polysaccharide and LPS were removed from this complex , resulting in an outer membrane complex and a purified complex , respectively . Analysis by electron microscopy showed the outer membrane origin of the crude complex and the outer membrane complex , whereas such a structure was absent in the purified complex . Sodium dodecyl sulfate - polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis patterns of the three complexes were identical . Pyrolysis - mass spectrometry data correlated well with those obtained by the biochemical assays and suggested a low LPS content in the purified complex and a low polysaccharide content in the outer membrane complex . The purified complex was shown to be nonpyrogenic and could be prepared with the same yield as that of purified polysaccharide . The immunogenic activities of the complexes were studied in mice . The antibodies were measured by the enzyme - linked immunosorbent assay ; and the bactericidal antibody assay . All complexes induced immunoglobulin G antibodies to group C polysaccharide as well as to the serotype antigen , although the removal of polysaccharide and LPS resulted in a reduction of the immunogenic activities of outer membrane complex and purified complex , respectively . A second dose of all complexes produced a clear booster effect of both antibody responses . The antibodies were bactericidal . [ Suppurated acute obstructive cholangitis . Anatomoclinical and therapeutic aspects ] . A total of 134 cases are discussed , with suppurated acute obstructive angiocholitis , that underwent surgical treatment over a period of 10 years , representing 12 , 8 % of the total number of organic obstructions of the hepato - choledocus . From the standpoint of the etiopathogenic mechanisms the angiocholitis was determined by biliary lithiasis in 59 cases , by sclerosis of the Oddi sphincter in 5 cases , by postoperative cicatriceal stenosis of the main biliary pathway in 2 cases , by hepatic hydatitosis in 16 cases , by Vater ampuloma in 10 cases by cancers of the main biliary pathway in 40 cases and by the congenital cyst of the choledocus in one case . The high frequency was noted , of the severe forms of ictero - uremigenic angiocholitis ( representing 68 cases , or 50 , 7 % of the total , with a death rate of 34 % ) . Medico - surgical treatment should be performed as early as possible , and it must be intensive , complex , and adapted to the anatomo - clinical forms . The authors performed evacuation choledocotomy with external draining in 22 cases ( 3 deaths ) , and choledoco - duodenal anastomosis in 46 cases ( 10 deaths ) , choledoco - jejunostomia in 3 cases , Oddi sphincterotomia in 12 cases ( 2 deaths ) ampulectomia in 5 cases ( 2 deaths ) . Peripheral bilio - hepatodigestive anastomoses were performed in 40 cases with 5 deaths . [ Reactive states among psychopathic personalities of different clinical groups ] . On the basis of a clinical follow - up of 71 psychopaths with manifestations of reactive psychosis , the authors established the clinico - typological characteristics of both groups of pathology and the system of correlations between them . They also described the structure of the psychopathic and psychogenic syndromes , the type of psychopathic personality reaction and the form of psychogenic responses and proved statistically their close interrelationship . Data were obtained on some general regularities of interrelations of reactive psychoses with a psychopathic background which are important for the prognosis , prophylaxis and therapy of reactive states . Hemostasis and mechanism of action of selective antimetastatic drugs in mice bearing Lewis lung carcinoma . The selective antimetastatic agents p - ( 3 , 3 - dimethyl - 1 - triazeno ) benzoic acid potassium salt ( DM - COOK ) , 5 - ( 3 , 3 - dimethyl - 1 - triazeno ) imidazole - 4 - carboxamide ( DTIC ) and ( + / - ) 1 , 2 - di ( 3 , 5 - dioxopiperazin - 1 - yl ) propane ( ICRF - 159 ) have been shown to markedly depress the formation of spontaneous hematogenous metastases in mice bearing s . c . Lewis lung carcinoma , with a mechanism unrelated to cytotoxicity for tumor cells . The effects on hemostasis of DM - COOK , DTIC and ICRF - 159 have thus been examined in comparison with those of a purely cytotoxic agent , cyclophosphamide , in mice bearing i . m . Lewis lung carcinoma . The parameters considered are the number of platelets and their aggregability , prothrombin and partial thromboplastin times , plasma fibrinogen concentration and tumor cell procoagulant activity . Slight variations are caused by drug treatment in tumor - bearing mice as compared with untreated tumor - bearing controls ; the pattern of effects of the selective antimetastatic agents does not differ from that of the reference cytotoxic compound used , cyclophosphamide . These data thus indicate that the effects on hemostasis of the drugs examined can contribute only marginally to their antimetastatic action , since more pronounced effects on hemostasis have been shown to be required to significantly affect metastasis formation . Purification and characterization of various esterases from rat liver . The major rat liver microsomal esterases acting on o - nitrophenylacetate with isoelectric points 5 . 0 , 5 . 5 , 6 . 1 and 6 . 4 were resolved by isoelectric focusing . Molecular weights were determined by sedimentation analysis in isokinetic gradients of sucrose and , after purification , in sodium dodecyl sulphate / polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis . Their subunit molecular weights were between 57 000 and 60 000 . They behaved as monomers except the pI - 6 . 1 enzyme which behaved as a trimer . Esterases of pI 5 . 0 , pI 6 . 1 and pI 6 . 4 behaved like glycoproteins of the polymannose type in the presence of 125I - labelled concanavalin A . Preparations of the pI - 5 . 0 enzyme contained two esterases of highly homologous structure . Antibodies directed against this preparation did not inhibit but precipitated pI - 5 . 0 esterase activity quantitatively . They did not react with the pI - 6 . 1 and pI - 6 . 4 esterases but precipitated several nonimmunologically related esterases . Two of these enzymes were inducible by phenobarbital . Total activity was very low in 3 - day - old animals . Individual esterase activities rose at different rates during development ; the enzyme focusing near pI 5 . 0 was about three times more active in adult females than in males . All microsomal esterases are located on the luminal side of the endoplasmic reticulum . Hippocampal afterdischarge interferes with storage of spatial information in a working memory test . In an attempt to impair spatial working memory by reversible functional blockade rather than by irreversible lesion of the hippocampus , eight male hooded rats were trained to asymptotic performance of 1 . 2 to 1 . 4 errors per trial in the spatial 12 - choice apparatus ( Bure s et al . 1982 ) , formally similar to the radial maze . The rats were implanted with hippocampal stimulating and recording electrodes , which were used for eliciting and monitoring hippocampal afterdischarge ( HAD ) lasting for at least 20 s . In Experiment 1 , HAD elicited 1 or 10 min before testing increased the incidence of errors to 2 . 75 or 2 . 50 per trial , respectively , but the performance still remained above chance level ( 4 . 18 ) . In Experiment 2 , interruption of the trial by 1 , 10 , 20 and 30 min intervals inserted between choices 6 and 7 increased the incidence of errors in choices 7 to 12 to 1 . 0 , 1 . 5 , 2 . 1 and 2 . 5 , respectively . HAD elicited immediately after choice 6 increased error incidence in the subsequent 6 choices performed after 1 - min or 10 - min intervals to 3 . 1 or 2 . 75 , respectively , i . e . to the chance level of 3 errors in 6 choices . It is concluded that HAD elicits transient shortening of the memory span for newly acquired spatial information ( anterograde effect ) and erases the current spatial working memory record ( retrograde effect ) . Inhibition by N - ( phosphonacetyl ) - L - aspartate of Ehrlich ascites tumour growth and glucose transport . N - ( Phosphonacetyl ) - L - aspartate ( PALA ) suppressed the growth of Ehrlich ascites tumour cells in vivo in a dose - dependent manner . Simultaneously as the growth rate decreased , the cellular uptake of glucose and the density of a class of glucose - reversible binding sites for cytochalasin B on the cell surface were also found to be reduced . There is a highly significant correlation between the magnitude of changes in the number of cytochalasin B binding sites and the magnitude of changes in glucose uptake . The physiological significance of these observations are discussed . [ In vitro studies of the thyroid gland regulation principles and their evaluation ] . The free fractions of the thyroid hormone further the metabolism of the body cells and regulate the synthesis of the thyroid hormone . Once the level of FT3 and FT4 decreases . With the help of a liberation of the hormone stimulating the thyroid gland from the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland the lack of thyroid hormone is corrected . The synthesis and secretion of the thyroid gland stimulating hormone is induced by the thyreotropin releasing hormone which is given by the hypothalamus . Moreover , the organism is able as needed to carry out the monodiodation of LT4 to biologically active LT3 or biologically inactive so - called revers T3 ( RT3 ) . The estimation of thyroid gland stimulating hormone before and 30 minutes after intravenous application of thyreotropin releasing hormone has its main importance for the early recognition of a disturbance of the regulating circle hypophysis - thyroid gland , above all in the diagnosis of clinically not yet manifest clinical pictures , such as the latent hypothyreosis and the latent hyperthyreosis , respectively ( Basedow hyperthyreosis and thyroidal autonomy ) . According to the questioning the estimations of the levels of the thyroid hormones and of the thyroid gland stimulating hormone should be used stepwise . Relationship of self - concept during late pregnancy to neonatal perception and parenting profile . Thirty - one gravidas were studied to examine the relationship between a woman ' s feelings about herself during late pregnancy , her perception of her newborn , and her profile of parenting . The Tennessee Self - Concept Scale was completed during the third trimester of pregnancy , the Neonatal Perception Inventory I at one - to - two days postpartum , and the Neonatal Perception Inventory II and the Michigan Screening Profile of Parenting at four - to - six weeks postpartum . When considered separately , no positive significant relationships were found between scores on these variables . However , all subjects with negative scores on both self - concept and neonatal perception had negative scores on at least two subscales of the parenting profile . Differential reactivity of the functional sulfhydryl groups of cysteine - 32 and cysteine - 35 present in the reduced form of thioredoxin from Escherichia coli . Only one of the sulfhydryl groups from Cys - 32 and Cys - 35 in the active center of native Escherichia coli thioredoxin - ( SH ) 2 was alkylated by excess iodoacetic acid at pH values below 8 . 0 . Both groups reacted in the protein denatured with 4 . 5 M guanidine hydrochloride . The second order rate of alkylation of thioredoxin - ( SH ) 2 with 1 eq of iodoacetic acid was pH - dependent and showed independent initial reactions of one thiolate ion with a pK value of 6 . 7 and a second with a pK value close to 9 . 0 . The same pH dependence was observed for alkylation with iodoacetamide but the apparent rate constant , 107 M - 1 S - 1 at pH 7 . 2 , was about 20 - fold higher than the corresponding rate with iodoacetate . The sulfhydryl group with a pK value of 6 . 7 was shown to belong to Cys - 32 by labeling thioredoxin with [ 14C ] iodoacetic acid followed by complete alkylation with [ 3H ] iodoacetate and amino acid sequence analysis of peptides from the active center . The abnormally low pK value of Cys - 32 is suggested to arise by electrostatic influence from a positive charge on the amino group of Lys - 36 . A mechanism of action for thioredoxin - ( SH ) 2 as a protein disulfide reductase has been formulated . This is based on an initial nucleophilic attack by the thiolate of Cys - 32 with the formation of an unstable transient mixed disulfide involving Cys - 32 and one of the sulfurs in the substrate . This is followed by a conformational change and a nucleophilic attack of Cys - 35 to give the 14 - membered disulfide ring in thioredoxin - S2 and the dithiol of the substrate . Subretinal neovascularization following rubella retinopathy . A 17 - year - old girl and an 11 - year - old girl with rubella retinopathy had decreased vision in one eye secondary to subretinal neovascularization and hemorrhage . In both cases a disciform scar with permanent decrease in central vision resulted . Verrucous carcinoma of the endometrium - - a unique neoplasm with long survival . A case of verrucous carcinoma of the endometrium with long survival is described . It represents the first of its type to be recorded in this site . The literature on verrucous carcinoma and on other cases of squamous carcinoma of the endometrium is briefly reviewed . Effects of 3 - chloromethylthiochromone - 1 , 1 - dioxide on nucleic acid , protein , and aerobic and anaerobic metabolism of Ehrlich ascites tumor cells . 3 - Chloromethylthiochromone - 1 , 1 - dioxide was observed to be a potent inhibitor of Ehrlich ascites carcinoma growth and a moderate inhibitor of P - 388 lymphocytic leukemia growth at 10 mg / kg / day . Preliminary in vitro studies showed that the agents significantly inhibited RNA and DNA synthesis in Ehrlich ascites cells . In vivo studies after dosing on Days 6 , 7 , and 8 demonstrated the same reductions in nucleic acid synthesis and a moderate reduction in protein synthesis . The primary site of nucleic acid synthesis , which was blocked by 3 - chloromethylthiochromone , was at orotidine monophosphate decarboxylase in the primidine pathway . Other enzymes , in anaerobic and aerobic glycolysis , which were blocked include hexokinase , phosphofructokinase , succinic and alpha - ketoglutarate dehydrogenases , as well as States 3 and 4 of oxidative phosphorylation . Metabolic alterations in a noncachectic animal tumor system . The increased energy expended by the host to synthesize substrate , which is utilized by the tumor , is a potential cause of cancer cachexia . In vivo glucose and alanine kinetics were examined by tracer methodology in a sarcoma - bearing rat model . The effects of 3 - mercaptopicolinic acid , a potent inhibitor of gluconeogenesis , was also examined on this model . Both tumor - bearing ( TB ) and nontumor bearing ( NTB ) animals were gaining weight prior to study and the tumors were relatively small . The TB animals had significantly lower plasma glucose and higher blood lactic acid levels compared with NTB animals . After inhibition of gluconeogenesis , the plasma glucose decreased and the blood lactate increased significantly more in TB than NTB animals . The glucose turnover rate was significantly greater in TB compared with NTB animals , as was the rate of glucose recycling and the rate of gluconeogenesis ( alanine leads to glucose ) , both energy demanding processes . These results suggest that the tumor - bearing animal , even prior to significant cachexia , has an excess demand for energy , the provision of which may be a significant factor in malignant cachexia . [ Organization of pectoral muscle motor neurons in the rat . Contribution to the study of the axillary arch ( Achselbogen ) ] . In spite of their role of the forelimb activity , the organization of the mammalian pectoral muscles remains unclear . In order to get more information , we have studied , qualitatively and quantitatively , the motor pools of the various pectoral muscles in the rat ( musculus pectoralis major , musculus pectoralis minor and musculus panniculus carnosus ) . The method applied was the retrograde transport of horseradish peroxidase by the peripheral nerves supplying the various muscles . The results provided the precise localization within the ventral horn of the motor neurons from the pectoral muscles which were all in the most ventral part of the gray matter . Three distinct motor pools were observed , which confirms the functional identity of each muscle . The motor neurons of m . panniculus carnosus exhibited some particularities . They were 4 times more numerous than those from m . pectoralis major , they occupied the whole ventral edge of the ventral horn , from its medial part to its lateral tip . The cell size was different from that of the other muscles . These results were discussed , according to the role of this muscle , which links the forelimb to the whole trunk . In mammals , m . panniculus carnosus constitutes , with musculus latissimus dorsi , the axillary arch ( Achselbogen ) . A small area of overlapping between the motor pools of these two muscles was observed . It was suggested that the muscular fibers from the axillary arch were innervated by the same , well - defined spinal area , independent of the muscle from which they originate . An unusual case of benign mucous membrane pemphigoid . This case of benign mucous membrane pemphigoid ( BMMP ) is unusual in that blistering , scarring lesions were confined to the skin for 15 years before mucous membranes were involved . The onset of this disorder at the age of 38 is also unusual . Detailed immunological investigation was performed on this patient but the results in no way clarify the present confusion regarding the immunopathological processes in BMMP related to those operative in bullous pemphigoid . Mast cell heparin stimulates migration of capillary endothelial cells in vitro . Migration of capillary endothelial cells is an important component of angiogenesis in vivo . Increased numbers of mast cells have been associated with several types of angiogenesis . We have used a quantitative assay in vitro to demonstrate that mast cells release a factor that significantly increases bovine capillary endothelial cell migration . The factor is present in medium conditioned by mast cells as well as lysates of mast cells . The stimulatory effect of mast cells on migration is specific for capillary endothelial cells . Furthermore , mast cells have no mitogenic activity for capillary endothelial cells . Of all the secretory products of mast cells tested , only heparin stimulated capillary endothelial cell migration in vitro . Heparin preparations from a variety of sources stimulated capillary endothelial cell migration to the same degree but did not stimulate migration of several other cell types . The migration activity of heparin and mast cell conditioned medium was blocked by specific antagonists of heparin ( protamine and heparinase ) , but not by chondroitinase ABC . The migration activity of mast cell conditioned medium was resistant to heat ( 100 degrees C ) and incubation with proteolytic enzymes . These results suggest that the role of mast cells in angiogenesis may be to enhance migration of the endothelial cells of growing capillaries . The inhibition of cultured myoblast differentiation by the simian virus 40 large T antigen occurs after myogenin expression and Rb up - regulation and is not exerted by transformation - competent cytoplasmic mutants . We have investigated the mechanism by which the simian virus 40 large T antigen ( SVLT ) interferes with the differentiation of C2 myoblasts . SVLT mutants , defective either in the Rb binding site , near the N - terminal end , in a region that affects binding to p53 , or in the nuclear transport signal , were also employed to determine whether the interference was especially dependent on these functional domains . It was found that wild - type ( wt ) SVLT strongly inhibited the terminal differentiation of mouse C2 myoblasts , but this arrest occurred only after the synthesis of myogenin , an initial step in biochemical differentiation . Neither the synthesis nor some basic activities of MyoD appeared to be affected by wt SVLT . In these transformants , mitogen depletion elicited an increase in the Rb level comparable to that in normal C2 cells ; wt SVLT , however , promoted the phosphorylation of a large part of the induced Rb . Mutations affecting nuclear transport were far more critical for the ability to interfere with myogenic differentiation than were those affecting the transforming potential ; cytoplasmic SVLT expression was fully compatible with the terminal differentiation of C2 cells , despite enabling them to grow in semisolid medium , thus showing that the myogenesis - inhibiting property can be dissociated from transforming competence . The remaining SVLT mutants presented different degrees of ability to inhibit differentiation ( as shown by the expression of tissue - specific markers in transformants ) . The inhibiting mutants , including the Rb binding site mutant , were able to promote a higher state of Rb phosphorylation than that observed in either normal cells or cytoplasmic - SVLT transformants . A transcript from the long terminal repeats of a murine retrovirus associated with trans activation of cellular genes . Infection of human or murine cells with murine leukemia viruses rapidly increases the expression of a number of genes that belong to the immunoglobulin superfamily and are involved in T - lymphocyte activation , including the class I major histocompatibility complex antigens . We have reported recently that the long terminal repeat ( LTR ) of Moloney murine leukemia virus encodes a trans activator which induces transcription and expression of class I major histocompatibility complex genes and certain cytokine genes . The portion of the LTR responsible for trans activation was mapped by deletions to lie within the U3 region . We demonstrate here that a transcript is initiated within the U3 region and that its presence correlates with the trans - activating activity . Analysis of the LTR region reveals a potential internal promoter element for RNA polymerase III transcription within the U3 region . Studies with polymerase inhibitors suggest that this LTR transcript , designated let ( LTR - encoded trans activator ) , is a product of RNA polymerase III . The mechanisms whereby RNA leukemia viruses cause lymphoid neoplasia after a long latent period have been extensively studied but are only partially understood . The region of the LTR identified here as being important in trans activation has recently been shown to be a critical determinant of the leukemogenicity and latency of Moloney murine leukemia virus . These findings suggest a novel mechanism of retrovirus - induced activation of cellular gene expression , potentially contributing to leukemogenesis . Cancer progression and p53 . In a complex organism , somatic cells are under intermittent selection pressure for the emergence of mutants that can survive environmental insults and that can grow autonomously despite adverse conditions . Repeated rounds of mutation , selection , and proliferation may lead to cancer . The organism prevents malignant transformation by assuring accurate DNA repair before cell division , by forcing the death of cells with excessive DNA damage , and by placing limits on the replicative lifespans of most somatic cells . The p53 gene is a " guardian of the genome " - - it regulates multiple components of the DNA damage control response and promotes cellular senescence . Disabling mutations and deletions of p53 occur in 50 % of human tumours . p53 - deficient cancers are often unstable , aggressive , and resistant to therapy . Anti - transforming growth factor ( TGF ) - beta antibodies inhibit breast cancer cell tumorigenicity and increase mouse spleen natural killer cell activity . Implications for a possible role of tumor cell / host TGF - beta interactions in human breast cancer progression . TGF - beta effects on angiogenesis , stroma formation , and immune function suggest its possible involvement in tumor progression . This hypothesis was tested using the 2G7 IgG2b , which neutralizes TGF - beta 1 , - beta 2 , and - beta 3 , and the MDA - 231 human breast cancer cell line . Inoculation of these cells in athymic mice decreases mouse spleen natural killer ( NK ) cell activity . Intraperitoneal injections of 2G7 starting 1 d after intraperitoneal inoculation of tumor cells suppressed intraabdominal tumor and lung metastases , whereas the nonneutralizing anti - TGF - beta 12H5 IgG2a had no effect . 2G7 transiently inhibited growth of established MDA - 231 subcutaneous tumors . Histologically , both 2G7 - treated and control tumors were identical . Intraperitoneal administration of 2G7 resulted in a marked increase in mouse spleen NK cell activity . 2G7 did not inhibit MDA - 231 primary tumor or metastases formation , nor did it stimulate NK cell - mediated cytotoxicity in beige NK - deficient nude mice . Finally , serum - free conditioned medium from MDA - 231 cells inhibited the NK cell activity of human blood lymphocytes . This inhibition was blocked by the neutralizing anti - TGF - beta 2G7 antibody but not by a nonspecific IgG2 . These data support a possible role for tumor cell TGF - beta in the progression of mammary carcinomas by suppressing host immune surveillance . The Met proto - oncogene mesenchymal to epithelial cell conversion . Coexpression of the human Met receptor and its ligand , hepatocyte growth factor / scatter factor ( HGF / SF ) , in NIH 3T3 fibroblasts causes the cells to become tumorigenic in nude mice . The resultant tumors display lumen - like morphology , contain carcinoma - like focal areas with intercellular junctions resembling desmosomes , and coexpress epithelial ( cytokeratin ) and mesenchymal ( vimentin ) cytoskeletal markers . The tumor cells also display enhanced expression of desmosomal and tight - junction proteins . The apparent mesenchymal to epithelial conversion of the tumor cells mimics the conversion that occurs during embryonic kidney development , suggesting that Met - HGF / SF signaling plays a role in this process as well as in tumors that express both epithelial and mesenchymal markers . Additional tests of interest to the dermatologist . The carcinoid syndrome and its clinical manifestations have been discussed . The standard laboratory test for making that diagnosis is urinary 5 - HIAA levels but newer , more sensitive tests may also be available . Molecular mediators of interactions with extracellular matrix components in metastasis and angiogenesis . Metastasis and tumor angiogenesis are invasive phenomena and share many common properties at the physiological level and some similarities at the molecular level . Each consists of repetitive cycles of interaction with adjacent extracellular matrix components by mediating cellular adhesion , matrix dissolution , and cellular motility to achieve metastasis of cancer cells or neovascularization of tumors . Molecular factors which implement this triad of events are reviewed , as are several signal transduction components which may regulate them . Some potentially promising prognostic , diagnostic , and therapeutic modalities for tumor angiogenesis and metastatic disease are also discussed . Enhanced DNA - binding activity of a Stat3 - related protein in cells transformed by the Src oncoprotein . Cytokines and growth factors induce tyrosine phosphorylation of signal transducers and activators of transcription ( STATs ) that directly activate gene expression . Cells stably transformed by the Src oncogene tyrosine kinase were examined for STAT protein activation . Assays of electrophoretic mobility , DNA - binding specificity , and antigenicity indicated that Stat3 or a closely related STAT family member was constitutively activated by the Src oncoprotein . Induction of this DNA - binding activity was accompanied by tyrosine phosphorylation of Stat3 and correlated with Src transformation . These findings demonstrate that Src can activate STAT signaling pathways and raise the possibility that Stat3 contributes to oncogenesis by Src . Ultraviolet B irradiation promotes tumorigenic and metastatic properties in primary cutaneous melanoma via induction of interleukin 8 . UV radiation has been shown to play a role in the initiation of human cutaneous melanoma , but its role in the development of malignant melanoma to the metastatic state is not very well defined . Although previous studies have concentrated on the effect of UV - B on the host immune response , the effect of UV - B on the tumor cells was not elucidated . Here we show that UV - B can induce interleukin 8 ( IL - 8 ) mRNA and protein secretion in human cutaneous melanoma with negligible expression of IL - 8 . UV - B - induced IL - 8 was constitutively expressed 60 days after irradiation in tumors implanted in mice . Induction of IL - 8 was UV - B dose dependent and blocked by cyclohexamide , indicating that de novo protein synthesis is required for its expression . The UV - irradiated cells demonstrated enhanced tumorigenicity and metastatic potential in nude mice . The increase in tumorigenicity and metastatic ability could be explained by the increase in Mr 72 , 000 type IV collagenase activity and angiogenesis attributed to the induction of IL - 8 after irradiation . The acquisition of the metastatic phenotype induced by UV - B could not be attributed to abnormalities in the p53 or MTS - 1 ( p16INK4 ) genes . To the best of our knowledge , this is the first report to show that UV - B can increase the aggressiveness of human cutaneous melanoma for growth and metastasis . Suppressed transformation and induced differentiation of HER - 2 / neu - overexpressing breast cancer cells by emodin . The amplification and overexpression of the HER - 2 / neu proto - oncogene , which encodes the tyrosine kinase receptor p185neu , have been observed frequently in tumors from human breast cancer patients and are correlated with poor prognosis . To explore the potential of chemotherapy directed at the tyrosine kinase of p185neu , we have found that emodin ( 3 - methyl - 1 , 6 , 8 - trihydroxyanthraquinone ) , a tyrosine kinase inhibitor , suppresses autophosphorylation and transphosphorylation activities of HER - 2 / neu tyrosine kinase , resulting in tyrosine hypophosphorylation of p185neu in HER - 2 / neu - overexpressing breast cancer cells . Emodin , at a 40 - microM concentration , which repressed tyrosine kinase of p185neu , efficiently inhibited both anchorage - dependent and anchorage - independent growth of HER - 2 / neu - overexpressing breast cancer cells . However , the inhibition was much less effective for those cells expressing basal levels of p185neu under the same conditions . Emodin also induced differentiation of HER - 2 / neu - overexpressing breast cancer cells by exhibiting a morphological maturation property of large lacy nuclei surrounded by sizable flat cytoplasm and by showing a measurable production of large lipid droplets , which is a marker of mature breast cells . Therefore , our results indicate that emodin inhibits HER - 2 / neu tyrosine kinase activity and preferentially suppresses growth and induces differentiation of HER - 2 / neu - overexpressing cancer cells . These results may have chemotherapeutic implications for using emodin to target HER - 2 / neu - overexpressing cancer cells . The LHRH pulse generator : a mediobasal hypothalamic location . The location and mechanism of LHRH pulse generator are discussed based on our series of experiments . Suckling stimulus is a novel stimulus that inhibits LH pulses without any cooperation from ovarian steroids , unlike other stimuli such as stress , photoperiod etc . It is directly involved in suppressing the activity of the LHRH pulse generator . The information from teats suckled by pups or babies is conveyed dorsally to the mediobasal hypothalamus ( MBH ) , where the LHRH pulse generator may be located . Experiments using various types of deafferentation and fetal brain tissue transplantation confirmed that the LHRH pulse generator is located in the MBH and suggested that LHRH pulse generator consists of nonLHRH neurons . Endogenous excitatory amino acid is one of the possible neurotransmitters that regulate LHRH release at the nerve terminal in ME . Bicistronic retroviral vector reveals capacity of v - erbA to induce erythroleukemia and to co - operate with v - myb . Previous studies have shown that v - erbA and v - myb can induce the proliferation of avian erythroid cells in culture . To study the combined effects of v - erbA and v - myb , the two oncogenes were engineered into a retrovirus bicistronic vector with an internal ribosomal entry site ( IRES ) or into a vector with a splice acceptor ( SPL ) . This allowed coexpression of the two proteins and a comparison with the same vector containing either v - erbA or v - myb only . Both the erbA IRES and the erbA / myb IRES virus constructs transformed erythroid cells after infection of bone marrow or blastoderm cultures . The erbA / myb IRES virus exhibited a 5 - 10 - fold higher transformed colony forming efficiency than the erbA IRES virus in the blastoderm assay . Surprisingly , when injected into chicken embryos in the presence of helper virus , both viruses induced an erythroleukemia in about half of the animals . In contrast , no leukemia was observed with a myb IRES virus , with spliced vectors containing v - erbA alone or v - erbA in combination with v - myb , nor with erbA IRES and erbA / myb IRES viruses produced in the absence of helper virus . The average latency of leukemia induction was shorter for the erbA / myb IRES virus ( 3 . 5 weeks ) than for the erbA IRES virus ( 5 weeks ) . Nevertheless , for both viruses the leukemic blasts retained full factor dependence for growth . These results show that v - erbA is capable of inducing an erythroleukemia when expressed by a high titer bicistronic retrovirus under conditions of virus spreading and that its in vitro and in vivo transforming potential can be enhanced by v - myb . Cancer metastasis : negative regulation by an invasion - suppressor complex . Invasion is the hallmark of tumor malignancy . We situate invasion within microecosystems comprising neoplastic cells as well as host cells . Modulation of invasion within such systems is ascribed to balances between promoter and suppressor pathways . The E - cadherin / alpha - , beta - , gamma - catenin complex has an invasion - suppressor function as evidenced by transfections either with sense cDNA encoding these molecules or with antisense cDNA inhibiting their expression . Loss of heterozygosity at the E - Cadherin ( uvo ) locus has been reported , but mutations in the E - cadherin gene seem to be rare . Downregulation of E - cadherin occurred at the level of transcription or of mRNA stability . Ex vivo cultures from invasive tumors or metastases produced cells that were homogeneously E - cadherin - positive and noninvasive in vitro . These observations have led to the idea that factors in the host downmodulate the E - cadherin complex and promote invasion most probably in a transient way . VEGF165 expressed by a replication - deficient recombinant adenovirus vector induces angiogenesis in vivo . To evaluate the concept that localized delivery of angiogenic factors via virus - mediated gene transfer may be useful in the treatment of ischemic disorders , the replication - deficient adenovirus ( Ad ) vector AdCMV . VEGF165 ( where CMV is cytomegalovirus and VEGF is vascular endothelial growth factor ) containing the cDNA for human VEGF165 , a secreted endothelial cell - specific angiogenic growth factor , was constructed . Human umbilical vein endothelial cells ( HUVECs ) and rat aorta smooth muscle cells ( RASMCs ) infected with AdCMV . VEGF165 ( 5 and 20 plaque - forming units [ pfu ] per cell ) demonstrated VEGF mRNA expression and protein secretion into the supernatant . Furthermore , the conditioned medium from these cells enhanced vascular permeability in vivo . In contrast , neither VEGF mRNA nor secreted protein was found in uninfected HUVECs or RASMCs or in cells infected with the control vector AdCMV . beta gal ( where beta gal is beta - galactosidase ) . Assessment of starved HUVECs at 14 days demonstrated sixfold more cells for AdCMV . VEGF165 - infected HUVECs ( 20 pfu per cell ) than for either infected or uninfected control cells . RASMC proliferation was unaffected by infection with AdCMV . VEGF165 . When plated in 2 % serum on dishes precoated with reconstituted basement membrane ( Matrigel ) , HUVECs infected with AdCMV . VEGF165 ( 20 pfu per cell ) differentiated into capillary - like structures . Under similar conditions , both uninfected HUVECs and HUVECs infected with AdCMV . beta gal did not differentiate . To evaluate the ability of AdCMV . VEGF165 to function in vivo , either AdCMV . VEGF165 or AdCMV . beta gal ( 2 x 10 ( 10 ) pfu ) was resuspended in 0 . 5 mL Matrigel and injected subcutaneously into mice . Immunohistochemical staining demonstrated VEGF in the tissues surrounding the Matrigel plugs containing AdCMV . VEGF165 up to 3 weeks after injection , whereas no VEGF was found in the control plugs with AdCMV . beta gal . Two weeks after injection , there was histological evidence of neovascularization in the tissues surrounding the Matrigel containing AdCMV . VEGF165 , whereas no significant angiogenesis was observed in response to AdCMV . beta gal . Furthermore , the Matrigel plugs with AdCMV . VEGF165 demonstrated hemoglobin content fourfold higher than the plugs with AdCMV . beta gal . Together , these in vitro and in vivo studies are consistent with the concept that Ad vectors may provide a useful strategy for efficient local delivery of VEGF165 in the treatment of ischemic diseases . Identification of NAB1 , a repressor of NGFI - A - and Krox20 - mediated transcription . NGFI - A ( also called Egr1 , Zif268 , or Krox24 ) and the closely related proteins Krox20 , NGFI - C , and Egr3 are zinc - finger transcription factors encoded by immediate - early genes which are induced by a wide variety of extracellular stimuli . NGFI - A has been implicated in cell proliferation , macrophage differentiation , synaptic activation , and long - term potentiation , whereas Krox20 is critical for proper hindbrain segmentation and peripheral nerve myelination . In previous work , a structure / function analysis of NGFI - A revealed a 34 - aa inhibitory domain that was hypothesized to be the target of a cellular factor that represses NGFI - A transcriptional activity . Using the yeast two - hybrid system , we have isolated a cDNA clone which encodes a protein that interacts with this inhibitory domain and inhibits the ability of NGFI - A to activate transcription . This NGFI - A - binding protein , NAB1 , is a 570 - aa nuclear protein that bears no obvious sequence homology to known proteins . NAB1 also represses Krox20 activity , but it does not influence Egr3 or NGFI - G , thus providing a mechanism for the differential regulation of this family of immediate - early transcription factors . Metastatic NIH 3T3 x LTA cell hybrids express 72 kDa type IV collagenase . We previously reported that the murine fibroblast cell line LTA is tumorigenic but non - metastatic , and is non - responsive to a transfected H - ras oncogene . In contrast , NIH 3T3 cells are non - tumorigenic but are ras - responsive and become metastatic when transfected with ras . Somatic cell hybrids between LTA and NIH 3T3 cells are tumorigenic , metastatic and ras - responsive . Here we examined expression of type IV collagenases in parental LTA and NIH 3T3 cells ( with and without ras ) and four metastatic LTA x NIH 3T3 hybrids ( also with and without ras ) . Parental NIH 3T3 - derived cells had both 72 kDa and 92 kDa gelatinase activities , and LTA - derived cells had either aberrantly sized approximately 90 kDa activity alone or neither enzyme activity . All four metastatic hybrids expressed 60 - 72 kDa gelatinase activity , while three of them also had 92 kDa activity and one had only minimal 92 kDa activity . Thus the metastatic phenotype of the hybrids was associated with expression of 72 kDa gelatinase . Levels of RNA for tissue inhibitors of metalloproteinases ( TIMP - 1 , TIMP - 2 ) were relatively constant , suggesting independent regulation of type IV collagenases and their inhibitors . Southern blotting and probing with PCR - synthesized cDNA fragments of the mouse 72 kDa type IV collagenase gene showed that this gene was present in all cells although the structure of this gene in one of the three LTA cell lines differed from that of the other cells . Our results suggest that a key change in the metastatic hybrids , relative to non - metastatic parental LTA cells , is induction of expression of 72 kDa type IV collagenase . Central nervous system infection with Eikenella corrodens : report of two cases . Two cases of central nervous system infections from which E . corrodens has been isolated are reported . The portals of entry , clinical course , and antimicrobial responses conform to other reports in the literature . The importance of obtaining careful anaerobic cultures is emphasized . Neoplastic progression of human colorectal cancer is associated with overexpression of the stromelysin - 3 and BM - 40 / SPARC genes . The interaction of neoplastic cells with the extracellular matrix is a critical event for the initiation of cancer invasion and metastasis . This study was designed to evaluate the potential implication of stromelysin - 3 ( ST3 ) , a newly identified member of the matrix - degrading metalloproteinase family , and of BM - 40 / SPARC , a glycoprotein associated with the extracellular matrix , during the progression of human colorectal cancers . We analyzed the relative abundance of ST3 and BM - 40 / SPARC transcripts by Northern blot , and their distribution by in situ hybridization , in normal mucosa , benign adenomas , and primary colorectal adenocarcinomas and their liver metastases . The ST3 and BM - 40 / SPARC transcripts were overexpressed in primary colorectal cancers and their liver metastases compared to non - neoplastic mucosa . These transcripts were localized in stromal fibroblasts adjacent to the neoplastic foci . Overexpression of ST3 correlated with the progression of human colorectal tumors toward local invasion and liver metastasis . Induction of these genes also occurred in diverticulitis and digestive neoplasms such as gastric and esophageal carcinomas . Comparative immunohistochemical study of primary and metastatic carcinomas of the liver . Distinguishing primary hepatocellular carcinoma ( HCC ) from metastatic carcinomas to the liver is often difficult , if not impossible , particularly in needle biopsy and fine - needle aspiration specimens . In an attempt to identify a specific immunohistochemical profile that would distinguish HCC from metastatic carcinomas , we studied 56 HCCs , 8 cholangiocarcinomas , and 24 metastatic adenocarcinomas with monoclonal antibodies to alpha - fetoprotein ( AFP ) , keratin ( AE1 , AE3 , and CAM5 . 2 ) , Leu - M1 , human milk fat globule ( HMFG - 2 ) , tumor - associated glycoprotein - 72 ( B72 . 3 ) , epithelial specific membrane antigen ( Ber - EP4 ) , and BCA - 225 ( CU - 18 ) . Both monoclonal and polyclonal ( mCEA and pCEA ) antibodies to carcinoembryonic antigen also were used . Metastatic adenocarcinomas were often positive for CU - 18 ( 71 % ) , Leu - M1 ( 75 % ) , B72 . 3 ( 50 % ) , HMFG - 2 ( 67 % ) , Ber - EP4 ( 83 % ) and mCEA ( 71 % ) . Using these antibodies , the frequency of positivity for HCC was 9 % , 16 % , 11 % , 20 % , 36 % , and 11 % , respectively . CU - 18 was the only monoclonal antibody in which there was a significant difference in positive rates between HCC and metastatic adenocarcinomas . Most HCCs ( 71 % ) revealed a bile canalicular staining pattern with pCEA . Because this staining pattern was absent in metastatic carcinomas , pCEA appears to be useful in confirming a diagnosis of HCC . AE1 , AE3 and CAM5 . 2 antibodies were not useful in distinguishing HCC from metastatic carcinomas . Each cholangiocarcinoma shared a staining profile similar to that of metastatic carcinomas . Heparin - steroid conjugates : new angiogenesis inhibitors with antitumor activity in mice . Inhibitors of angiogenesis hold potential in the treatment of cancer and other diseases where the disease is caused or maintained by the inappropriate growth of blood vessels . In the present study , a novel inhibitor of angiogenesis was synthesized by covalently linking a nonanticoagulating derivative of heparin , heparin adipic hydrazide ( HAH ) , by an acid - labile bond to the antiangiogenic steroid , cortisol . The rationale was that the heparin derivative , which binds to sulfated polyanion receptors on endothelial cells , should concentrate the steroid on the surface of vascular endothelial cells . Endocytosis of the conjugate and decomposition of the acid - labile linkage inside lysosomes and other acidic intracellular compartments should then lead to release of the cortisol and expression of its antiproliferative activity . Analysis of the stability of HAH - cortisol showed that it was stable at pH 7 . 4 and broke down rapidly ( t1 / 2 15 min ) at pH 4 . 8 at 37 degrees C . Treatment of murine pulmonary capillary endothelial cells with HAH - cortisol at 10 ( - 5 ) M ( with respect to cortisol ) suppressed their DNA synthesis by 50 % and inhibited their migration into wounded areas of confluent monolayers . HAH - cortisol at 10 ( - 4 ) M ( with respect to cortisol ) did not suppress the DNA synthesis of Lewis lung carcinoma cells . Daily i . p . injections of HAH - cortisol into mice bearing s . c . sponge implants retarded vascularization of the sponge , and injections directly into the sponge abolished vascularization for as long as the injections were continued . Daily i . v . injections of HAH - cortisol at doses causing no apparent toxicity retarded the growth of solid s . c . Lewis lung carcinomas in mice by up to 65 % . In all of these assays , equivalent treatments with a mixture of the HAH plus cortisol was significantly less effective . The antiproliferative effect of HAH - cortisol on endothelial cells appeared independent of the glucocorticoid activity of the steroid since HAH conjugated to 5 beta - pregnane - 3 alpha , 17 alpha , 21 - triol - 20 - one , a steroid lacking glucocorticoid or mineralocorticoid activity , was even more effective at inhibiting DNA synthesis by murine pulmonary capillary endothelial cells than was HAH - cortisol . In conclusion , HAH - cortisol represents the prototype of a new class of angiogenesis inhibitors for the treatment of cancer and other angiogenic diseases . Colorimetrical rate assay for urinary dipeptidyl peptidase IV ( DPPIV ) activity using a new substrate . We synthesized a new substrate glycyl - L - proline 3 , 5 - dibromo - 4 - hydroxyanilide ( Gly - Pro - DBAP ) , for dipeptidyl peptidase IV ( DPPIV ) . Its hydrolysis by DPPIV resulted in the formation of a chromophore , 2 , 6 - dibromophenol - indo - p - xylenol , and its maximal absorption wavelength ( 600 nm ) was longer than that of p - nitroaniline ( 415 nm ) released from conventional substrate , glycyl - L - proline p - nitroanilide ( Gly - Pro - pNA ) . We also established the rate assay for urinary DPPIV activity using Gly - Pro - DBAP . The optimum pH was between 8 . 5 and 9 . 0 . The apparent Km was 1 . 1 mmol / 1 . The detectable range was 2 . 5 - 350 U / l . No changes in blank values occurred throughout the enzyme reaction in the optimum pH . Its value was also much lower than Gly - Pro - pNA . CVs for within - run and between - run were 1 . 1 % ( n = 10 ) and 3 . 0 % ( n = 10 ) , respectively . Among tested peptidases , only DPPIV could hydrolyze Gly - Pro - DBAP . Among the protease inhibitors , only two , diprotin - A and phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride ( PMSA ) , could inhibit DPPIV activity . The present method did not interfere with urinary ingredients such as hemoglobin . The correlation between the present ( y ) and conventional ( x ) methods is presented by the equation y = 1 . 121x + 0 . 096 ( r = 0 . 993 ) . Thus the present method provides practical advantages over the conventional method for routine laboratory use . Primary hyperparathyroidism and the heart : cardiac abnormalities correlated to clinical and biochemical data . Comparing patients with primary hyperparathyroidism ( PHP ) to a normocalcemic control population , those with PHP have a higher incidence of cardiovascular disease and cardiac abnormalities . This study aimed at correlating cardiac findings ( valvular and myocardial calcification , myocardial hypertrophy ) with clinical data ( age , sex , clinical manifestation , nephrolithiasis , nephrocalcinosis , hypertension , skeletal abnormalities , hypercalcemic syndrome ) and biochemical data ( serum calcium , serum phosphate , serum iPTH level , serum creatinine ) . A group of 132 consecutive patients with surgically verified PHP ( 94 women , 38 men ; ages 15 - 86 , mean age 57 + / - 16 years ) were included in this study . Blood chemistry , clinical presentation , radiography , and echocardiography were carried out in all patients for univariate and multivariate analyses of all parameters . There was no statistical correlation between clinical symptoms , biochemical data , and cardiac calcific alterations . Typical skeletal manifestations ( osteolysis / subperiostal resorption ) and valvular calcifications were significantly correlated to left ventricular hypertrophy ( p = 0 . 005 ) . Cardiac abnormalities such as calcific myocardial deposits or mitral and aortic valvular calcifications do not correlate with laboratory findings and clinical presentation at the time of diagnosis . There was no biochemical or clinical variable that could predict the frequency or severity of valvular sclerosis or calcific deposits in the myocardium . However , PHP - related skeletal abnormalities and valvular calcification were predicting factors for left ventricular hypertrophy , a reversible cardiac manifestation of PHP . Myocardial hypertrophy is more often found with classic symptomatic PHP with osseous abnormalities . Childhood conscientiousness and longevity : health behaviors and cause of death . Previous research showed that conscientiousness ( social dependability ) in childhood predicted longevity in an archival prospective cohort study of bright children first studied by Terman in the 1920s ( H . S . Friedman et al . , 1993 ) . Possible behavioral mechanisms for this robust association are now examined by gathering cause of death information and by considering the possible mediating influences of drinking alcohol , smoking , and overeating . Survival analyses ( N = 1 , 215 ) suggest that the protective effect of conscientiousness is not primarily due to accident avoidance and cannot be mostly explained by abstinence from unhealthy substance intake . Conscientiousness may have more wide - ranging effects on health - relevant activities . Selenoperoxidase - dependent glutathione cycle activity in peroxide - challenged leukemia cells . Murine leukemia L1210 cells rendered deficient in glutathione peroxidase ( GPX ) and phospholipid hydroperoxide glutathione peroxidase ( PHGPX ) by Se deprivation ( L . Se ( - ) cells ) were found to be more sensitive to tert - butyl hydroperoxide ( t - BuOOH ) cytotoxicity than Se - replete controls ( L . Se ( + ) cells ) . Human K562 cells , which express PHGPX , but not GPX , were also more sensitive to t - BuOOH in the Se - deficient ( K . Se ( - ) ) than Se - satisfied ( K . Se ( + ) ) condition . In examining the metabolic basis for selenoperoxidase - dependent resistance , we found that glucose - replete Se ( - ) cells reduce t - BuOOH to t - butanol far more slowly than Se ( + ) cells , the ratio of the first - order rate constants approximating that of the GPX activities ( L1210 cells ) or PHGPX activities ( K562 cells ) . Monitoring peroxide - induced changes in GSH and GSSG gave consistent results ; e . g . , glucose - depleted L . Se ( + ) cells exhibited a first order loss of GSH that was substantially faster than that of glucose - depleted L . Se ( - ) cells . Under the conditions used , peroxide - induced conversion of GSH to GSSG could be stoichiometrically reversed by resupplying D - glucose , indicating that no significant lysis or GSSG efflux and / or interchange had taken place . The apparent first - order rate constant for GSH decay increased progressively for L1210 cells expressing a range of GPX activities from approximately 5 % to 100 % , demonstrating that peroxide detoxification is strictly dependent on enzyme content . The initial rate of 14CO2 release from D - [ 1 - 14C ] glucose supplied in the medium was much greater for L . Se ( + ) or K . Se ( + ) cells than for their respective Se ( - ) counterparts , consistent with greater hexose monophosphate shunt activity in the former . These results highlight the importance of selenoperoxidase action in the glutathione cycle as a means by which tumor cells cope with hydroperoxide stress . Differential expression and mutation of NME genes in autologous cultured human melanoma cells with different metastatic potentials . The putative metastasis suppressor genes , NME1 ( nm23 - 1 ) and NME2 ( nm23 - 2 ) , were examined in a model system we developed to approximate the dissemination of melanoma from a primary skin tumor . We utilized two autologous human melanoma cell lines , IV Cl 1 and IV Cl 3 , which displayed qualitatively different metastatic phenotypes following subdermal inoculation into nude mice . Highly metastatic IV Cl 1 cells expressed approximately 5 fold lower levels of protein encoded by NME genes than non - metastatic IV Cl 3 cells . Similar differences in NME protein levels were observed in tumors induced by the two cell lines in nude mice . There were no differences in NME mRNA levels between these two cell lines , suggesting that expression of these proteins is regulated at a post - transcriptional level . We found a ser122 - pro mutation in the NME2 gene of metastatic IV Cl 1 cells . A similar ser120 - gly mutation in NME1 has been found in human neuroblastoma , suggesting that mutation in this region may be a general phenomenon related to tumor progression . These mutations may have functional consequences since they eliminate potential phosphorylation sites and may affect the tertiary structure of mature protein complexes . Image - directed and color Doppler studies of gallbladder tumors . Thirteen cases of primary adenocarcinoma of the gallbladder ( GB ) , 1 of malignant fibrous histocytoma , 3 of metastatic adenocarcinoma , 5 of adenoma , 5 of polypus , 2 of xanthogranuloma , 6 of chronic cholecystitis , 4 of acute cholecystitis , and 8 of subacute cholecystitis were studied by image - directed and color Doppler ultrasonography ( CDUS ) . All of the 14 cases of primary GB cancer ( 10 masses , 4 thickening wall ) were found to have a high velocity arterial blood flow signal in the wall of the GB . In contrast , the 3 cases of metastatic cancer of the GB had no blood flow signal in the wall of the GB . For the 30 cases of benign lesions of the GB , only in 12 cases was a low velocity blood flow signal found . Nine of 10 cases of primary GB malignancy were found to have high velocity arterial blood flow signals in the tumor masses . No blood flow signal was observed in the masses of 13 cases ( 3 of metastatic adenocarcinoma , 5 of adenoma , 5 of polypus ) . An abnormal high velocity arterial blood flow signal observed within masses in the GB or in the GB wall is a significant feature of primary GB cancer and thus helps to differentiate primary GB cancer from metastatic and benign lesions of the GB . Differential effects of carbachol on calcium entry and release in CHO cells expressing the m3 muscarinic receptor . Calcium signalling was examined in CHO - k1 cells that stably express the m3 subtype of the muscarinic receptor . The calcium indicator Fura - 2 was retained in these cells only in the presence of probenecid ( 1 mM ) , suggesting that Fura - 2 efflux was mediated by an organic anion transporter . The addition of carbachol ( CCh ) to Fura - 2 loaded cells in suspension caused a rapid transient increase in intracellular calcium [ Ca ] i followed by a smaller sustained plateau phase . The transient rise in [ Ca ] i was dose - dependent with a threshold response of 89 + / - 18 nM above baseline with 10 nM CCh and a maximum stimulation of 734 + / - 46 nM with 10 microM CCh . This phase was accompanied by a similar dose - dependent stimulation of total inositol phosphate production and was assumed to be generated by release from intracellular stores of the endoplasmic reticulum ( ER ) . The sustained increase in [ Ca ] i was generated by entry from the extracellular bath since it was blocked by pretreatment with La3 + ( 1 microM ) and was absent when bath calcium was chelated with EGTA . This phase was not dependent on CCh dose , and a stimulation of [ Ca ] i of approximately 90 nM above baseline was observed with CCh concentrations between 50 nM and 10 microM . With this dose range , the rate of Mn2 + quenching of Fura - 2 at the Ca - insensitive excitation wavelength of 360 nm was likewise maximally stimulated . At lower CCh concentrations ( 10 - 50 nM ) , it was clear that the activation of Ca entry could not be dissociated from a threshold release of Ca from intracellular stores . The phorbol ester PMA , which uncouples the muscarinic receptor from phospholipase C , reduced the transient rise in [ Ca ] i by approximately 50 % with little or no effect on Ca entry at higher CCh levels ( > or = 1 microM ) . At lower CCh concentrations ( < or = 100 nM ) however , pretreatment with PMA completely blocked all Ca mobilization and supports the contention that Ca entry is coupled to Ca release from stores or to store depletion . The emptying of inositol trisphosphate - sensitive stores with thapsigargin ( 10 nM ) stimulated Ca entry and also the rate of Mn2 + quenching . Store depletion by incubation in Ca - free media likewise stimulated Mn2 + uptake without a rise in [ Ca ] i . Our data are therefore consistent with a ' capacitative ' coupling model , whereby the activation of the plasma membrane receptor leads to an InsP3 - induced change in the degree of filling of the ER Ca pool . ( ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS ) Down - regulation of collagen XII in transformed mesenchymal cells . Collagen XII is a complex multidomain protein associated with the surface of interstitial collagen fibrils . This protein is produced in large amounts by fibroblasts cultivated in vitro . However , it is completely absent from cells transformed by the oncogene v - myc or v - src and from cells derived from a methylcholanthrene - induced fibrosarcoma . Since all these cells lack any mRNA for collagen , XII , it seems likely that the synthesis is blocked at the transcriptional level . Experiments with a temperature - sensitive mutant of Rous sarcoma virus demonstrated that a single oncogene product is sufficient to inhibit the synthesis . A reduction in the expression of collagen XII might have profound effects on the stability of the extracellular matrix of transformed cells . Comparative NMR study of a differentiated rat hepatoma and its dedifferentiated subclone cultured as spheroids and as implanted tumors . H4IIEC3 ( H4 ) , a differentiated rat hepatoma line and H5 , its dedifferentiated subclone , were investigated as proliferating spheroids and as implanted subcutaneous tumors in juvenile rats . H4 cells formed tight , round spheroids whereas H5 cells formed loose , grape - like structures . 31P MR spectra showed that phosphocreatine was present in H5 spheroids but not in H4 spheroids or tumors . [ 13C ] Lactate production from [ 13C ] glucose , with no detectable uptake of [ 13C ] alanine , indicated that energy production in H5 spheroids was primarily via glycolysis . No [ 13C ] glucose utilization was detected in H4 spheroids , but uptake of alanine and accumulation of labeled lactate , glutamate and glutamine indicated oxidation via the tricarboxylic acid ( TCA ) cycle . Tumors of H4 cells were well perfused , unlike tumors of H5 cells which were highly necrotic . Following i . v . infusion with [ 13C ] alanine , [ 13C ] lactate and glutamate , evidence of oxidation via the TCA cycle , were observed in H4 tumors . Thus the results obtained by 31P and 13C MRS correlated with the differentiation state of H4 and H5 spheroids and tumors . Modulation of apoptosis in human myeloid leukemic cells by GM - CSF . Apoptosis ( programmed cell death ) regulates cell population size . To determine the mechanisms whereby hematopoietic growth factors ( HGFs ) modulate apoptosis in human myeloid leukemic cells , we evaluated the roles of protein and mRNA synthesis for altering apoptosis in growth factor - stimulated vs . quiescent leukemic TF1 cells . Lysates of cells from the granulocyte - macrophage colony - stimulating factor ( GM - CSF ) - dependent myeloid leukemic cell line TF1 were separated into high molecular weight ( HMW ) pellets of intact DNA and supernatants of fragmented low MW ( LMW ) DNA , and the DNA purified from these fractions was quantified . In the absence of both GM - CSF and fetal bovine serum ( FBS ) , 70 % of the DNA was fragmented after 3 days in culture , with a characteristic apoptotic ladder - like pattern on agarose gel electrophoresis , whereas this proportion had initially been < 5 % . In contrast , less than 5 % of the DNA was fragmented in cells incubated with GM - CSF plus FBS or GM - CSF alone . Delayed addition of GM - CSF , but not FBS , permitted partial rescue of the cells , inhibiting increasing rates of accumulation of fragmented DNA . When the macro - molecular synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide ( CHX ) or actinomycin D ( Act D ) was present for 26 hours in the absence of GM - CSF and FBS , apoptosis was inhibited . In contrast , in the presence of GM - CSF or FBS , apoptosis was enhanced upon addition of CHX or Act D . The latter effect persisted even with the late addition of CHX . These findings indicate that disparate mechanisms of enhancing or inhibiting apoptosis exist in myeloid leukemic cells related to environmental conditions , including HGF - regulated cellular synthesis of distinct proteins and mRNA . Effects of doxycycline on in vitro growth , migration , and gelatinase activity of breast carcinoma cells . Metastatic disease is one of the major causes of death from cancer in human beings . Several enzyme systems have been implicated in the metastatic process , but the metalloproteinases ( MPs ) appear to be the major group involved in most instances of neoplastic invasion . Increased MP activity has been correlated with the metastatic potential of many cancers , including breast cancer . MPs also play a role in tumor angiogenesis . Tetracyclines are antimicrobial agents that can suppress MP activity in a variety of tissues , including gingiva , bone , and cartilage . Several reports have indicated that tetracyclines can suppress tumor MPs as well . A synthetic tetracycline , doxycycline , inhibits migration of human MDA - MB - 435 breast adenocarcinoma cells through a reconstituted basement membrane ( Matrigel ) , an assay used as an in vitro surrogate for the in vivo process of tumor invasion through basement membranes . Additionally , doxycycline diminishes the proliferation of this breast cancer cell line and also decreases its gelatinolytic activity , as determined by gel zymography . [ The erbB gene family : significance for tumor development , prognosis and new therapeutic modalities ] . RNA and DNA viruses can be transforming and tumourigenic agents . The transformation is a consequence of the ability of viruses to integrate into the host cell ' s DNA and to produce transforming proteins . These proteins are mainly produced by specific integral parts of the viral genome , the oncogenes . Comparison between RNA / DNA sequence of viral oncogenes and normal human genome of non - transformed cells revealed high sequence similarities in specific genomic areas , which were named cellular proto - oncogens . They are important components of the growth regulatory pathways in normal cells . The accumulation of genetic alterations of some proto - oncogens , like the erbB - family , may be part of the mechanism , by which malignant cells can acquire a selective growth advantage . The epidermal growth factor receptor ( EGF - R , c - erbB1 ) , Her - 2 / neu ( c - erbB2 ) , and c - erbB3 are members of the erbB - family . The detection of increased abundance of EGF - R or Her - 2 / neu proteins in human tumours can provide additional information on the disease - free survival and overall survival for patients with breast , ovarian , endometrial or cervical cancer . Molecular and cell - physiological analyses have improved the understanding of tumour biology and provide the opportunity for new therapeutic approaches . Monoclonal antibody targeted therapy directed against EGF - R or Her - 2 / neu , the use of anti - sense oligonucleotides and oligodeoxynucleotides , and the application of tyrosine kinase and protein C - kinase inhibitors are currently being investigated . Transforming growth factor beta 1 promotes spontaneous transformation of cultured rat liver epithelial cells . The neoplastic transformation of cultured rat liver epithelial cells by various means has consistently been associated with the development of resistance to the mito - inhibitory effect of transforming growth factor beta ( TGF - beta ) , suggesting that such phenotype plays a mechanistic role during the transformation of these cells . We have studied the induction of the " TGF - beta - resistant " phenotype in a clonal strain of early passage WB - F344 normal cultured rat liver epithelial cells , the proliferation of which was markedly inhibited by TGF - beta . The control WB cells in continuous culture slowly developed TGF - beta resistance . However , when the same cells were exposed to step - wise increases of TGF - beta concentration in their culture medium , the development of TGF - beta resistance was accelerated . Cells which had been grown in medium containing 1 ng / ml TGF - beta developed colony - forming capacity in soft agar containing epidermal growth factor . Cells which were grown in media containing 5 and 10 ng / ml TGF - beta demonstrated a low level of colony - forming efficiency in soft agar medium without added epidermal growth factor and tumorigenicity in isogeneic rats . These TGF - beta - resistant cells also exhibited progressively increasing levels of expression of the c - fos and and myc mRNA , and increased resistance to the cytotoxicity of Adriamycin and melphalan . The latter phenomenon was accompanied by an increase in the mdr - 1 mRNA expression , cellular glutathione level , and glutathione S - transferase activity . The results suggest that chronic exposure to high concentration of TGF - beta promotes the spontaneous neoplastic transformation of cultured rat liver epithelial cells , and that this process may represent one of the mechanisms of cellular adaptation for induction of the multidrug - resistant phenotype during the carcinogenesis of epithelial cells . Human cytomegalovirus elevates levels of the cellular protein p53 in infected fibroblasts . Human cytomegalovirus ( HCMV ) , like other DNA tumor viruses , induces morphological transformation of cells in vitro and stimulates host cell macromolecular synthesis in infected cells . Since other DNA tumor viruses , such as simian virus 40 and adenovirus , have previously been shown to interact with cellular protein p53 , we investigated whether infection of cells by HCMV would modulate cellular p53 levels . Our results indicate that HCMV elevates cellular p53 levels on the order of 10 - to 20 - fold in infected fibroblasts . The induction of elevated p53 levels was dependent upon the presence of active virus and was prevented by neutralizing antibody . The induction of elevated p53 levels was determined not to be due to virus - receptor interactions or HCMV late events . The induction of elevated p53 levels commenced at immediate - early times of the HCMV multiplication cycle ( 6 h postinfection ) and reached maximal levels by 24 h postinfection , before most of the HCMV DNA synthesis was initiated . HCMV immediate - early proteins were clearly shown to be responsible for elevating p53 levels in infected fibroblasts ; expression of HCMV immediate - early region 1 and 2 proteins resulted in elevation of p53 levels in transfected human fibroblasts . This is the first report of increased p53 levels caused by HCMV in infected fibroblasts . Appetite regulation by serotoninergic mechanisms and effects of d - fenfluramine . In this literature review , evidence is presented for the theory that the neurotransmitter , serotonin ( 5 - hydroxytryptamine , 5HT ) , in medial hypothalamic centres is an important regulator for appetite and for the selection of major food constituents . High local levels of 5HT cause a reduction of appetite and a preference for protein , low levels the opposite . The main antagonistic system is noradrenergic . The drug d - fenfluramine mimics the effects of 5HT by releasing 5HT from serotoninergic nerve endings and inhibiting its neuronal re - uptake . Further experimental data prove that a high - carbohydrate , low - protein diet promotes uptake of serum tryptophan in the brain and its conversion into 5HT . Hence , this serotoninergic system may function as a self - regulatory mechanism . In patients with decreased peripheral insulin sensitivity , the system may be disturbed , causing overconsumption of carbohydrates . This is sometimes compulsive ( " carbohydrate craving " ) . It may be presumed that in the treatment of obesity , in addition to the use of serotoninergic drugs , successes with reducing diets may be enhanced by including periods of high - carbohydrate , low - protein intake . It would be worthwhile to explore whether similar alimentary self - regulatory mechanisms of neurotransmitter function exist in other regulatory systems . Comparison of image ( CAS 200 ) and flow cytometry determined DNA content of paraffin - embedded Hodgkin ' s disease tissue . To assess the reliability of DNA estimation using image cytometry , deparaffinized lymph nodes from 70 patients with Hodgkin ' s disease were examined and the results obtained were compared with those from flow cytometry . Image analysis without discriminating between the various cell types , as found in Hodgkin ' s disease , revealed no separate aneuploid peak . Selecting on morphologically defined nuclear types DNA aneuploidy was detected in 20 % of the cases ( 14 / 70 ) . The aneuploid populations were limited to the population of nuclei defined as Reed - Sternberg ( RS ) - like or medium - sized lymphocytes . Benign lymph nodes DNA aneuploidy was not found in any of the controls . Comparison of DNA histograms obtained by image and flow cytometry showed aneuploid peaks using image cytometry in 4 of 30 diploid and 10 of 40 aneuploid flow histograms . In conclusion , image analysis using the CAS 200 system as compared to flow cytometry is more time - consuming and less sensitive to assess ploidy status , although it may provide extra information in some selected cases . Evidence is obtained that DNA aneuploidy in Hodgkin ' s disease is preferentially expressed by cells with the RS / H - like and medium - sized lymphocyte morphology . Inhibition of calmodulin - dependent myosin light - chain kinase by growth - hormone - releasing factor and vasoactive intestinal peptide . In view of the ability of calmodulin to bind vasoactive intestinal peptide ( VIP ) and growth - hormone - releasing factor ( GRF ) with high affinity [ Stallwood , Brugger , Baggenstoss , Stemmer , Shiraga , Landers and Paul ( 1992 ) J . Biol . Chem . 267 , 19617 - 19621 ] , the effects of these neuropeptides on a model calmodulin - dependent enzyme , myosin light - chain kinase ( MLCK ) , were studied . Both peptides were potent inhibitors of MLCK activity . The inhibition of enzyme activity by VIP and GRF was progressively overcome with increasing calmodulin concentrations , with no inhibition observed at a saturating calmodulin concentration . Nanomolar concentrations of MLCK blocked the formation of calmodulin - [ 125I - Tyr10 ] VIP complexes . These data provide support for a functional role of VIP and GRF binding by calmodulin . Cyclin D1 / bcl - 1 cooperates with myc genes in the generation of B - cell lymphoma in transgenic mice . The chromosomal translocation t ( 11 : 14 ) is associated with human lymphoid neoplasia affecting centrocytic B - cells of intermediate differentiation . As a consequence the cyclin D1 ( bcl - 1 ) gene is juxtaposed to the immunoglobulin heavy chain enhancer E mu . To show that transcriptional activation of cyclin D1 is causally involved in the generation of B - cell neoplasia we have generated transgenic mice that carry a cyclin D1 gene under the transcriptional control of the E mu element . E mu cyclin D1 transgenic mice show only very subtle alterations in the cycling behaviour of B - cell populations in the bone marrow compared with normal mice and do not develop lymphoid tumours . However , E mu - directed coexpression of cyclin D1 and N - MYC or L - MYC in double transgenic mice reveals a strong cooperative effect between MYC and cyclin D1 provoking the rapid development of clonal pre - B and B - cell lymphomas . Interestingly , crossing of cyclin D1 transgenic mice with E mu L - myc transgenics that express their transgene in both B - and T - cells but predominantly develop T - cell tumours leads in double transgenics exclusively to B - cell neoplasia . The data presented here demonstrate that transcriptional activation of cyclin D1 can oncogenically transform B - cells in concert with a myc gene . They establish cyclin D1 as a proto - oncogene whose activity appears to depend on a specific cell type as well as on a specific cooperating partner and link disturbances in the regulation of cell cycle progression to the development of human malignancies . Imaging techniques for the assessment of body composition . Three imaging methods , ultrasound imaging ( UI ) , computer - assisted axial tomography ( CAT ) and magnetic resonance imaging ( MRI ) , are widely used in medicine . Their application to the assessment of body composition in nutrition research is still being explored and developed . Ultrasound imaging yields poor image quality but , because it is cheap and safe , deserves further exploration . Both CAT and MRI can produce images with good discrimination among bone , muscle and adipose tissue . Movement artifacts tend to be more serious in MRI than in CAT due to the longer imaging time . On the other hand , the X - ray exposure in CAT is likely to limit its use in human nutrition research . Repeated measurements of tissue volumes by CAT and MRI give similar CV . In both CAT and MRI , intra - abdominal adipose tissue presents greater problems of measurement than subcutaneous adipose tissue . Validation studies with 77 - kg pigs of MRI , using 13 slices , predicted total body lipid with residual standard deviation of 1 . 9 % . In validating any of these methods , account should be take of the extent to which the information they give can augment that given by more simple measures like age and weight . [ Preliminary results of observing 18 cases of retinoblastoma carried within the international research program RICS ] . In the years 1988 - 1989 , the Ophthalmological Clinic in Cracow took part in the International Research Programme on Retinoblastoma as one of 28 clinical centres in 14 countries . The study included 18 children with retinoblastoma , in most cases in the advanced stadium of the disease . As a rule , the eyes filled with tumours were enucleated , and the less advanced cases were treated with combined methods applying radiation with 60Co plaques with xenon arc photocoagulation , cryopexy , and chemotherapy . In 18 treated children 23 eyes were enucleated ( in 5 children both eyes , in 6 children with bilateral retinoblastoma 1 eye , and 7 eyes in all unilateral cases ) . Six eyes with less advanced lesions were treated with combined methods . One child died because of metastases to the brain . The obtained data reveal that retinoblastoma is diagnosed too late , which decreases the chance of cure and causes great danger for the life of the child . Identification of latency - associated transcripts that map antisense to the ICP4 homolog gene of Marek ' s disease virus . Two small RNAs ( 0 . 9 and 0 . 75 kb ) , named Marek ' s disease virus ( MDV ) small RNAs ( MSRs ) and a 10 - kb RNA , all of which map antisense to the MDV ICP4 homolog gene , have been readily detected in MDCC - MSB1 MDV - transformed T - lymphoblastoid cells . These RNAs were not detectable in reticuloendotheliosis virus - transformed T cells . When MDV was reactivated by treatment of lymphoblastoid cells with 25 micrograms of iododeoxyuridine per ml , the relative levels of the transcripts decreased . These RNAs were not detected by Northern ( RNA ) hybridization in productively infected chicken embryo fibroblasts 48 h postinfection ; however , they were apparent 140 h postinfection . By using Northern hybridization , RNase protection assays , and primer extension analysis , the MSRs were determined to map antisense to the predicted translational start site of the ICP4 homolog gene . The conclusion most consistent with the data is that the two MSRs are overlapping , spliced RNAs . Both small RNAs contain a latency promoter binding factor consensus recognition sequence located toward their 5 ' ends as well as two potential ICP4 recognition consensus sequences , one in each orientation . The region contains a number of small open reading frames on each side and within the MSRs . Although the exact endpoints are unknown , the large 10 - kb species spans the entire ICP4 homolog region . We believe that this group of RNAs , which map antisense to the ICP4 homolog gene , are latency - associated transcripts of MDV . Elevated expression of the junB proto - oncogene is essential for v - fos induced transformation of Rat - 1 cells . We previously described the isolation of non - tumorigenic revertants from mutagenized populations of v - fos - transformed Rat - 1 cells ( Zarbl et al . , 1987 ) . In the present study we examined the possibility that the revertant phenotype resulted from mutations that altered the expression or activities of the c - jun or junB proto - oncogenes . The results demonstrated that levels of the c - jun mRNA and protein were unchanged in the revertants when compared to the transformed parental cells , and ectopic overexpression of c - jun failed to retransform the revertants . Although one mutant allele was detected in revertant EMS - 1 - 19 , overexpression of this mutant allele failed to inhibit v - fos induced cell transformation . Together these results indicated that the revertant phenotype did not result from altered expression or mutations in the c - jun gene . In contrast to the results obtained with c - jun , the levels of junB mRNA and protein were found to be reduced two - or threefold in revertant EMS - 1 - 19 . Ectopic overexpression of junB induced transformation of revertant EMS - 1 - 19 , but failed to transform Rat - 1 cells . Moreover , about 10 % of v - fos transformed cells transfected with vectors that express antisense junB mRNA acquired a non - transformed phenotype . Together these results indicate that expression of junB above a threshold level is essential for v - fos - induced transformation of Rat - 1 fibroblasts . Increased expression of specific protein tyrosine phosphatases in human breast epithelial cells neoplastically transformed by the neu oncogene . Protein tyrosine phosphorylation / dephosphorylation is a fundamental mechanism in the regulation of cell proliferation and neoplastic transformation ; this metabolic process is modulated by the opposing activities of protein tyrosine kinases and protein tyrosine phosphatases ( PTPases ) . While the role of protein tyrosine kinases has been examined extensively in human breast tumorigenesis , the role of PTPases in this process is virtually unknown . To address this issue , an activated neu oncogene was introduced into an immortalized nontumorigenic human breast epithelial cell line ( 184B5 ) . This resulted in a substantial increase in P185neu expression , which led to the formation of progressively growing carcinomas after such cells were inoculated into athymic nude mice . Importantly , a striking increase in the expression of specific PTPases , LAR and PTP1B , was observed in 3 independently neu transformed cell lines and their derived tumors . This elevation was verified at both the mRNA and protein levels . TC - PTP PTPase expression was only slightly increased in these neu transformed cells , and no expression of CD45 PTPase was observed . The level of neu expression , as well as the differential expression between P185neu and LAR / PTP1B , directly correlated with tumorigenicity . Furthermore , rat mammary carcinomas with elevated neu expression ( neu - induced ) also had sharply elevated LAR - PTPase expression when compared to rat mammary carcinomas with little or no neu expression ( 7 , 12 - dimethylbenzanthracene induced ) ; the level of expression of LAR PTPase was directly correlated with the level of neu expression . Thus , our results provide the first evidence that , in human breast carcinoma cells and in rat mammary carcinomas that have an induced increase in neu expression , a consistent and substantial increase in the expression of specific PTPases occurs . The relationship between P185neu - protein tyrosine kinase expression and specific PTPase expression may play a critical role in human breast tumorigenesis . Epilepsy in Down syndrome : clinical aspects and possible mechanisms . Although epilepsy is more common in persons with trisomy 21 ( Down syndrome ) than in the general population , the mechanisms by which seizures are generated in this population have received little attention . It is likely that this increased seizure susceptibility is due to a combination of medical risk factors and inherent neurologic abnormalities characteristic of Down syndrome . In this review clinical aspects of seizures among individuals with Down syndrome were described and possible mechanisms by which the trisomy 21 brain may generate seizures were explored . In vivo effects of insulin on tumor and skeletal muscle glucose metabolism in patients with lymphoma . BACKGROUND : The anabolic properties of insulin have been suggested for use to reverse malnutrition associated with cancer . The host and tumor sensitivities to insulin are critical for such treatments , which aim to improve patient nutrition . The authors studied insulin effects on tumor and skeletal muscle metabolism with 2 - [ 18F ] - fluoro - 2 - deoxy - D - glucose ( [ 18F ] FDG ) and positron emission tomography ( PET ) . METHODS : Six patients with lymphoma twice underwent [ 18F ] FDG - PET imaging : once after fasting overnight and once during euglycemic hyperinsulinemic clamp . The dynamic uptake of the glucose analogue [ 18F ] FDG was measured in diseased nodes and upper arm skeletal muscle in both metabolic states . The [ 18F ] FDG uptake in muscle and the whole body glucose use during euglycemic hyperinsulinemic clamp were compared with those of weight - matched healthy subjects studied under similar circumstances . RESULTS : In lymphomatous tissue , [ 18F ] FDG uptake rates were similar in overnight fasting and euglycemic hyperinsulinemic clamp ( 38 + / - 10 versus 41 + / - 9 mumol / 100 g / minute , not significant ) , whereas glucose uptake in skeletal muscle was increased by insulin ( 1 . 7 + / - 0 . 2 versus 3 . 8 + / - 0 . 5 mumol / 100 g / minute , P = 0 . 012 ) . Both basal ( 2 . 3 + / - 0 . 2 mumol / 100 g / minute , P = 0 . 061 ) and insulin - stimulated ( 8 . 5 + / - 1 . 9 mumol / 100 g / minute , P = 0 . 055 ) skeletal arm muscle glucose uptake rates were higher in control subjects than in patients . Whole body glucose use was 55 % lower in patients than in control subjects ( 17 + / - 3 mumol / kg / minute versus 38 + / - 3 mumol / kg / minute , P = 0 . 002 ) , consistent with insulin resistance in cancer . CONCLUSIONS : We found that insulin does not induce major changes in glucose uptake of lymphomatous tissue . Although insulin sensitivity of skeletal muscle was also reduced in patients with lymphoma , the net insulin effect may counteract imbalance between glucose uptake of tumor and muscle , offering a potential means to circumvent at least some metabolic abnormalities found in cancer . Kinins contribute to the improvement of insulin sensitivity during treatment with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor . Although angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors and alpha 1 - blockers have been reported to improve insulin sensitivity , their mechanisms of action have not been elucidated . To investigate the role of kinins in insulin sensitivity , we treated 4 - week - old spontaneously hypertensive rats with either an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor ( enalapril ) , an alpha 1 - blocker ( doxazosin ) , or an angiotensin II antagonist ( losartan ) for 3 weeks . A control group received no drugs . In addition , 18 rats treated with enalapril or doxazosin received a simultaneous administration of a kinin antagonist ( Hoe 140 ) . Glucose clamp testing was performed in each group . Enalapril ( 128 + / - 1 mmHg ) and doxazosin ( 132 + / - 2 mmHg ) decreased mean blood pressure compared with control levels ( 148 + / - 1 mmHg ) ( P < . 01 ) . The glucose requirement for the clamp test during the administration of enalapril ( 25 . 8 + / - 0 . 5 mg / kg per minute ) or doxazosin ( 28 . 6 + / - 0 . 7 mg / kg per minute ) was higher than that of the control group ( 19 . 8 + / - 0 . 5 mg / kg per minute ) ( P < . 05 ) . Although Hoe 140 did not alter the glucose requirement of doxazosin ( 27 . 8 + / - 0 . 5 mg / kg per minute ) , it decreased that of enalapril ( 22 . 6 + / - 0 . 9 mg / kg per minute ) ( P < . 05 ) without affecting the changes in mean blood pressure induced by enalapril . In addition , losartan decreased mean blood pressure but did not affect the glucose requirement . Thus , the improvement in insulin sensitivity produced by an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor is mostly dependent on kinins but not on angiotensin II antagonism , and an alpha 1 - blocker improves insulin sensitivity irrespective of kinins . H - ras mutations in human pituitary carcinoma metastases . Molecular mechanisms of pituitary tumorigenesis were studied using Polymerase chain reaction - single stranded conformational polymorphism with DNA sequencing to identify potential mutations in the ras protooncogenes and the tumor suppressor gene p53 in invasive pituitary adenomas and carcinomas . Sequencing of exons 5 through 8 of the p53 gene revealed no mutations , nor were mutations detected in the N - or K - ras protooncogenes in four of the carcinomas and their respective metastatic deposits . Point mutations of H - ras however , were identified in three distant metastatic pituitary tumor secondaries , but not in their respective primary pituitary carcinomas , or in six invasive adenomas . Two of the mutations included a G to C substitution at codon 12 , and a G to A substitution at codon 18 , resulting in a glycine to arginine , and an alanine to threonine change at these amino acids , respectively . A third mutation involved a single base pair ( adenine ) deletion in codon 3 of H - ras which causes a frame shift , resulting in a termination signal at codon 19 . These results suggest that point mutations in p53 and ras are not associated with pituitary tumorigenesis , however , point mutations of the H - ras gene may be important in the formation and or growth of pituitary metastases . This observed genomic instability will be of value in predicting the potential metastatic behavior of these aggressive pituitary tumors . Distribution and predictors of depressive symptoms in osteoarthritis . OBJECTIVE : To determine the prevalence and correlates of depressive symptoms in a sample of elderly persons with osteoarthritis ( OA ) . METHODS : Secondary analysis of cross sectional interview data from 108 community living persons age 50 or over who met American College of Rheumatology clinical criteria for OA of the hip and / or knee . RESULTS : The prevalence of substantial depressive symptomatology appeared to be no greater than would be expected in the general population for this age group . However , persons currently under a physician ' s care for OA were significantly more depressed than those not under care , and , with the exception of those who had post - high school education , depression was a better predictor of being under care than OA symptoms . The direct and interactive effects of 3 variables - - education , age and self - perceived impact of the OA problem - - were found to explain 40 % of variance in depression scores in the total sample and 50 % among those currently receiving care . Younger and less educated subjects had relatively more depressive symptoms and , furthermore , in this subgroup the correlation between OA impact and depression was high . CONCLUSIONS : The importance of assessing depression in persons who seek care for OA is supported . Furthermore , our results suggest that the observed relationship between education and arthritis outcomes could be mediated , at least in part , by depression . Methotrexate osteopathy in rheumatic disease . OBJECTIVE : To determine whether two adults with stress fractures receiving low weekly doses of methotrexate had methotrexate osteopathy . CASE REPORTS : Two adult patients developed features consistent with methotrexate osteopathy while receiving low weekly doses of methotrexate . METHODS : Iliac crest biopsy samples were taken and bone histomorphometry carried out . RESULTS : Symptoms resolved when the methotrexate was discontinued . Bone histology showed changes consistent with osteoblast inhibition by methotrexate . CONCLUSIONS : When given in low doses for prolonged periods , methotrexate may have adverse effects on bone , particularly in post - menopausal women . Overexpression of Glut - 1 glucose transporter in human breast cancer . An immunohistochemical study . BACKGROUND : Breast cancers have higher than normal glucose metabolism , but the mechanism of glucose entry into these tumors is not well understood . METHODS : The expression of five facilitative glucose transporters , Glut - 1 ( erythrocyte type ) , Glut - 2 ( liver type ) , Glut - 3 ( brain type ) , Glut - 4 ( muscle / fat type ) , and Glut - 5 ( small intestine type ) , was studied by immunohistochemistry of paraffin sections from 12 primary human breast cancers and 8 lymph node metastases from 2 patients . Rat tissues known to express these glucose transporters were used as controls . RESULTS : All the primary breast cancers and the lymph node metastases were positive for Glut - 1 . This transporter was expressed on the cell membrane and in the cytoplasm of the tumor cells , but exhibited marked intratumoral and intertumoral variability in the proportions of positive cells and the intensity of staining . Staining of the normal mammary epithelium , if present , was much lower than observed in tumor cells from the same patient . Glut - 2 was expressed in all of the tumors , but the intensity of staining was not consistently stronger than that seen in healthy breast . Clusters of Glut - 4 - positive granule were observed in cells in six of the tumors . None of the tumors or the healthy breast in the tissues studied expressed Glut - 3 or Glut - 5 . CONCLUSIONS : Higher expression of the glucose transporter Glut - 1 by breast cancer cells compared with the healthy breast tissue is common . Increased glucose transporter protein expression may contribute to the increased uptake of 2 - [ 18F ] - fluoro - 2 - deoxy - D - glucose ( FDG ) by these tumors observed by positron emission tomography ( PET ) imaging . Methodologies for measuring carcinogen adducts in humans . In summary , although some of the more optimistic aspirations for human biomonitoring studies envisaged a decade ago have not been realized thus far , some considerable advances have been made . The examples cited above indicate that the feasibility of biomonitoring has been clearly established . In addition , they demonstrate the need for preliminary biomarker testing and validation through transitional studies prior to their field application . In the next decade of research into carcinogen adducts in humans , continued improvements in the reproducibility and specificity of assays for DNA adducts will be needed . Perhaps the increasing use of hybrid methodologies to concentrate adducts followed by specific chemical analyses will allow such adducts to be monitored more precisely . Of course , further basic research into the mechanisms of carcinogenesis will allow the measurement of specific novel markers which are more closely tied to the disease endpoint than adducts . The development of new assays for determining metabolic phenotypes and genotypes relevant to carcinogenesis should improve our estimates of susceptibility ( 46 - 48 ) . Such new approaches along with the sustained improvement of current assays will allow molecular approaches to continue to enrich cancer epidemiology in the future . Effect of 1 - alkylpyrrolidine N - oxides on energy metabolism of cancer cells . The main purpose of the present investigation was to study the effect of a homologous series of 1 - alkylpyrrolidine N - oxides on ATP - producing processes in Ehrlich ascites and L1210 murine leukemia cells . The effect on aerobic glucose consumption , lactic acid formation , content of total ( T - SH ) and non - protein thiol groups ( NP - SH ) , endogenous respiration and the level of ATP in tumor cells incubated in vitro was investigated . 1 - Tetradecylpyrrolidine N - oxide ( TPNO ) , one of the most active compounds , immediately after addition to the suspension of Ehrlich cells in an ice bath , decreased the level of ATP to the same extent over the whole concentration range . After 2 h incubation at 37 degrees C the drop in the ATP level was lower . The decrease in ATP level might be explained through the interaction of the amine oxide with the cell membrane integrity . High density of somatostatin receptors in veins surrounding human cancer tissue : role in tumor - host interaction ? Somatostatin receptors were detected in peritumoral veins of various human cancer tissue specimens . Vascular and neoplastic tissue from 14 colonic adenocarcinomas , 13 carcinoids , 6 renal - cell carcinomas and 7 malignant lymphomas were analyzed for somatostatin receptors by use of quantitative receptor autoradiography . In colonic carcinoma specimens , the peritumoral vessels expressed a high density of somatostatin receptors , whereas the neoplastic tissue itself was receptor - negative in many cases . In contrast , the incidence and density of somatostatin receptors in peritumoral vessels was low in well - differentiated gastrointestinal and bronchial carcinoids , in contrast to the high density of such receptors in the carcinoid tumor tissue . Autochthonous vessels surrounding other tumors such as renal - cell carcinomas or malignant lymphomas also frequently expressed somatostatin receptors . In all cases , the somatostatin receptors were localized in veins , particularly in the smooth - muscle cell layer . They exhibited specific and high - affinity binding of somatostatin - 14 , somatostatin - 28 and octreotide , suggesting a preferential expression of the SSTR2 receptor subtype . Since the vessels of normal non - neoplastic human tissues , e . g . of intestine or lymphatic organs , have few somatostatin receptors , the increased somatostatin receptor expression in peritumoral vessels observed in this study may be linked to the neoplastic process itself . The results suggest that somatostatin and somatostatin receptors may play a regulatory role for hemodynamic tumor - host interactions , possibly involving tumor stroma generation , tumor environment , angiogenesis and , particularly , vascular drainage of poorly differentiated neoplasms . [ Treatment of the diabetic foot by hyperbaric oxygen ] Diabetic foot wounds are consequences of the neuropathy and the small and large vessel disease that complicate diabetes . At the cellular level , the result is hypoxia which impairs wound healing . Hyperbaric oxygenation ( HBO ) may be a useful adjuvant to wound care . It leads to enhanced oxygenation of the affected tissues , has an antiseptic effect , reduces edema , and accelerates collagen production and angiogenesis , thus enhancing tissue repair . 14 diabetics with chronic nonhealing wounds which did not respond to treatment for at least 3 months were treated by HBO . All had palpable pedal pulses . Transcutaneous measurements of tissue pO2 showed elevation from 20 + / - 10 mm Hg during air breathing to 643 + / - 242 mm Hg while breathing pure oxygen at 2 . 5 ATA . They were treated with HBO in 56 + / - 10 consecutive HBO sessions . In 11 there was complete wound healing , while in 1 there was partial response , in 1 minimal response , and in 1 a transient response . HBO is useful in chronic nonhealing wounds of the diabetic foot and of the diabetic foot with impending amputation . It is a safe mode of therapy , but further studies are required to establish its efficacy and to ascertain which diabetic patients and wounds will benefit the most from it . Chelation treatment of neurological Wilson ' s disease . The results of chelation treatment of 137 patients presenting with neurological Wilson ' s disease are described , together with the more commonly observed toxic reactions to the various drugs employed . Fifty - seven patients made an excellent response to treatment and became symptom free . Thirty - six patients made a good recovery , but were left with some minor neurological deficit . Twenty - four patients had a poor response : although the disease process was arrested they were left more or less disabled . Twenty patients died : nine had little or no treatment , but 11 died despite apparently adequate chelation therapy . There was no obvious reason for this failure . The liver copper level was estimated in six of these patients : it was still significantly elevated in only one , but in all four in whom it was possible to make the determination , the concentration of copper in the basal ganglia was in excess of 45 micrograms / g wet weight . It was not apparent why adequate therapy failed to remove copper from the brains of these patients . There was no obvious clinical , histological or biochemical indicator of failure to respond to treatment . Initial deterioration before improvement was seen in 30 patients : the prognosis for a useful recovery was not necessarily worse than that in patients who did not show this phenomenon . Transformation - associated cytokine 9E3 / CEF4 is chemotactic for chicken peripheral blood mononuclear cells . 9E3 / CEF4 , which is released from transformed chicken embryo fibroblasts ( CEF ) , is a member of the platelet factor 4 family of inflammatory proteins and may be the avian homolog of interleukin - 8 . Since the function of 9E3 / CEF4 is unknown , we examined the effect of the protein on mitogenicity and chemotaxis , as well as its expression , in fibroblasts and peripheral blood cells . 9E3 / CEF4 mRNA was expressed in chicken peripheral blood monocytes , and its expression was stimulated by incubation of the monocytes with lipopolysaccharide or phorbol myristic acetate . Boyden double - membrane analysis of chemotaxis showed that 9E3 / CEF4 was chemotactic for chicken peripheral blood mononuclear cells , as well as for heterophils . Untransformed CEF and CEF transformed with Rous sarcoma virus also migrated to 9E3 / CEF4 protein , as measured by Boyden single - membrane analysis . 9E3 / CEF4 was slightly mitogenic for CEF , causing a doubling of [ 3H ] thymidine uptake when added to serum - starved CEF . 9E3 / CEF4 was found associated not only with the cell and in the culture medium of Rous sarcoma virus - transformed CEF but also with the extracellular matrix . The in vivo role of 9E3 / CEF4 may be involved with chemotaxis and metastasis , rather than with direct stimulation of mitogenicity . Lactotransferrin binding to its platelet receptor inhibits platelet aggregation . A fluorescent lactotransferrin probe was prepared by coupling 5 - ( ( [ 2 - ( carbhydrazino ) methyl ] - thio ) acetyl ) amino fluorescein to aldehyde groups that were produced by a mild periodic - acid oxidation of the glycan moieties of lactotransferrin . In this manner , the receptor - binding site of the lactotransferrin remains active in contrast to the binding site of the lactotransferrin derivatized with fluorescein isothiocyanate . The fluorescent probe allowed us to characterize , by flow cytometry , the binding of lactotransferrin to non - activated human platelets . The putative lactotransferrin platelet receptor was purified and its immunological and physico - chemical properties were found to be very similar to those of the receptor previously isolated from activated human lymphocytes . Lactotransferrin inhibits ADP - induced platelet aggregation at concentrations down to 5 nM , which can be reached in the plasma after leukocyte degranulation . Inhibition of platelet aggregation was also observed with the N - terminal fragment of lactotransferrin ( residues 3 - 281 ; 50 % inhibition = 2 microM ) and with CFQWQRNMRKVRGPPVSC synthetic octodecapeptide ( residues 20 - 37 ; 50 % inhibition = 20 microM ) corresponding to one of the two external loops ( residues 28 - 34 and 39 - 42 ) where we recently located the receptor - binding site . The activity ( 50 % inhibition = 500 microM ) of the tetrapeptide KRDS ( residues 39 - 42 ) , which has already been described , was at least 25 - times and 16000 - times lower than the activity of the octodecapeptide and of the lactotransferrin molecules , respectively . Finally , the inhibition was demonstrated to be mediated by a mechanism which requires the binding of lactotransferrin to its putative receptor and not to platelet glycoprotein IIb - IIIa . Vitamins regulate gene expression and induce differentiation and growth inhibition in cancer cells . Their relevance in cancer prevention . Although several hypotheses for human carcinogenesis have been proposed , the specific genetic changes that cause normal cells to become cancer cells have not been identified . In spite of uncertainties regarding the mechanisms of carcinogenesis , several vitamins such as beta - carotene and vitamins A , C , and E , which can reduce the risk of cancer , have been identified , using animal and in vitro models of carcinogenesis . These studies have led to a hypothesis that the supplemental intake of these vitamins may reduce the risk of cancer . This hypothesis in humans can be tested only by intervention trials that are in progress . Prospective and retrospective case - controlled experimental designs are not suitable for testing the above hypothesis . The fact that some vitamins induce cell differentiation and / or growth inhibition in tumor cells in culture suggests that the use of these vitamins in cancer prevention has a cellular basis . In addition to having a direct effect on tumor cells , vitamins such as alpha - tocopheryl succinate and beta - carotene enhance the effect of other agents that induce differentiation in tumor cells . Some vitamins like beta - carotene , retinoic acid , alpha - tocopheryl succinate , and vitamin D also regulate the expressions of certain oncogenes and cellular genes . These are exciting new functions of vitamins that nobody could have predicted only a few years ago . Increased nm23 - H1 and nm23 - H2 messenger RNA expression and absence of mutations in colon carcinomas of low and high metastatic potential . BACKGROUND : The murine nm23 gene suppresses the metastatic behavior of malignant rodent tumor lines , and reduced nm23 expression correlates with increased likelihood of lymph node metastases in human breast cancers . More recent data have demonstrated the existence of two human nm23 gene homologues , nm23 - H1 and nm23 - H2 , and have shown that deletion of nm23 - H1 alleles occurs in some colon carcinomas associated with poor prognosis . These findings suggest that nm23 - H1 encodes for suppression of colon carcinoma metastasis . In contrast , we have previously reported that total nm23 messenger RNA ( mRNA ) expression is increased to similar levels in colon tumors of both high and low metastatic potential . PURPOSE : This study was designed to reconcile our previous findings with the recent report of nm23 - H1 allelic deletion in human colon cancers associated with poor prognosis . Our purpose was to examine human colon cancers for inactivation of two candidate metastasis suppressor genes , nm23 - H1 and nm23 - H2 , either by mutation or by loss of gene transcription . METHODS : We used ribonuclease protection assays to analyze human colon tumors for the level of nm23 - H1 ( 43 samples ) and nm23 - H2 ( 41 samples ) transcript ( mRNA ) expression and the presence of mutations that could inactivate potential suppressor function . RESULTS : We detected only wild - type nm23 - H1 and nm23 - H2 mRNA . Expression of nm23 - H1 mRNA increased in 33 of 41 colon tumors , and expression of nm23 - H2 mRNA was elevated in 28 of 41 colon tumors relative to that in matched normal mucosa . Increases in these mRNA levels were similar in tumors of both low and high metastatic potential . CONCLUSIONS : These results suggest that , despite correlation of nm23 - H1 allelic deletions with colon cancers associated with poor prognosis , nm23 - H1 and nm23 - H2 alleles do not directly mediate metastasis suppression in colon carcinoma . Our results leave unexplained the observation that nm23 - H1 allelic deletion correlates with metastatic potential of colon carcinomas . IMPLICATIONS : These findings also contrast with the demonstration of nm23 metastasis suppressor activity in murine melanoma and with the correlation of loss of nm23 expression in breast cancer with poor prognosis . It may be that metastasis suppression by the nm23 gene is a tissue - specific phenomenon . E mu - bcl - 2 transgene facilitates spontaneous transformation of early pre - B and immunoglobulin - secreting cells but not T cells . To assess the lymphoid tumorigenic potential of bcl - 2 , mice of five independent strains expressing a bcl - 2 transgene in B and / or T cells were monitored for disease up to 12 months of age . Lymphoma prevalence was minimal in the T lineage but significant , although low ( 3 - 15 % ) , in the B lineage . The principal types of tumors were plasmacytomas secreting immunoglobulin and novel lymphomas that expressed markers such as Sca - 1 , CD4 , Thy - 1 , CD34 and CD45 ( B220 ) , consistent with an origin very early in B - lymphoid development . Rearrangement of the c - myc gene was common in the plasmacytomas , implying a synergistic role for myc and bcl - 2 in their etiology , but was not detected in the lymphomas . Appearance of tumorous phenotypes in goldfish erythrophores transfected with ras , src , and myc oncogenes and spontaneous differentiation of the transformants in vitro . When goldfish erythrophores isolated from the skin by tissue digestion and centrifugation in a Percoll density gradient were transfected in a monolayer - culture with v - Ha - ras or v - src oncogene either singly or in combination with v - myc by means of calcium phosphate - DNA co - precipitation , there appeared a certain number of transformants manifesting a chromatoblast - like profile and tumorous phenotypes as seen in the capability for unlimited growth , and piling - up in a monolayer - culture or colony formation in semi - solid soft agar . After successive growth in vitro for longer than one month which was scarcely observed with the erythrophores , the vast majority of such transformants began to differentiate into erythrophores and ceased proliferation spontaneously . The onset of their differentiation was ascertained by the deposition of marker pteridine pigments . None of the transformants differentiated into melanophores or iridophores or other neural crest derivatives as seen in goldfish erythrophoroma cells . Little difference was observed in their transforming efficiency ( 0 . 2 - 0 . 3 transformants / micrograms DNA ) between the combinations of oncogenes applied but a tendency was noted that cells transfected with ras or src in combination with myc developed the capacity to grow for a longer period and differentiated at a later stage than those transfected solely with ras or src . One cell line ( ESM - 1 ) derived from the erythrophores transfected with src / myc grew successively over nine months , indicating its acquisition of immortality . The expression of the transfected oncogenes in this cell line was examined in comparison with the erythrophoroma cells by Western and Northern blot analyses . [ Prehospital service in Denmark ] . In Denmark , emergency ambulances are dispatched by 41 centres manned either by trained firemen ( in Copenhagen ) or policemen ( outside Copenhagen ) . In 1990 , emergency ambulance calls totalled 284 , 000 . Utilisation of emergency ambulance services increases with urbanisation . A doctor - manned ambulance is in operation in Copenhagen , and in some other large towns anaesthesiology and intensive care teams can be dispatched from hospital to give on - the - spot care . In less populated areas , some general practitioners give advanced life - support . Although many areas are serviced by ambulances equipped with defibrillators , the majority of patients receive only basic life - support from ambulance personnel . New initiatives resulting from a recent report by a commission appointed by central authorities , and focused on prehospital treatment , are expected to improve the service by raising the level of training given to ambulance personnel . Tumorigenic activity of rho genes from Aplysia californica . rho genes have been found in both lower and higher eucaryotes . They code for proteins of 21 kDa , highly conserved in evolution , which belong to the superfamily of ras GTPases . Among the members of this superfamily there are proteins with a regulatory function , such as ras , and proteins involved in vesicular trafficking , such as the family of rab proteins . We have investigated the putative role of rho proteins from Aplysia californica as transforming GTPases utilizing the wild - type and a Val - 14 mutant , equivalent to the oncogenic Val - 12 mutation of ras genes found in animal and human tumors . Over - expression of either rho gene was sufficient to confer anchorage - and serum - independent growth . Moreover , when introduced into nude mice , selected clones generated from either gene were able to induce tumors , although those carrying the mutated version were more efficient . Pathological analysis indicated that generated tumors corresponded to well - differentiated fibrosarcomas with distinct and intersecting bundles and spindle cells . By contrast , ras - induced tumors were poorly differentiated fibrosarcomas . Thus , our results indicate that under appropriate conditions rho genes function as oncogenes and may have a role in the regulation of proliferation in fibroblast cells . Immune consequences of burn injury . The purpose of the immune system is to protect cells from invasion by microorganisms . The body has three equally important interactive immune defense systems , all of which are profoundly disrupted with major burn injury . The immune response to burn injury is immediate , prolonged , and severe . The end result in individuals surviving burn shock is immunosuppression , with increased susceptibility to potentially fatal systemic burn wound or pulmonary sepsis . Nursing actions to support the humoral and cell - mediated immune system of the burned patient include providing nutritional support to maintain serum protein levels at optimal levels ; measures to decrease edema and promote angiogenesis in areas of partial - thickness injury ; meticulous treatment of the wound to prevent infection and promote healing ; monitoring of antibiotic use ; conservative use of invasive techniques , including intubation and vascular access devices ; maintenance of fluid and electrolyte balance and body temperature ; and energy conservation measures . Autocrine angiogenic vascular prosthesis with bone marrow transplantation . Synthetic vascular prostheses are foreign bodies , so that blood coagulation can occur on their luminal surfaces , causing graft occlusion very frequently in prostheses of small diameter . A vascular prosthesis needs angiogenesis for endothelialization of the luminal surface , as endothelial cells have natural and permanent antithrombogenic properties . To induce capillary growth into the graft , we developed a method of transplanting bone marrow cells , which are primitive , strong enough to survive , and create blood cells , resulting in the inducement of capillary growth . In an animal experiment , marrow cells were infiltrated into the walls of long - fibril expanded polytetrafluoroethylene ( ePTFE ) vascular grafts . The grafts were implanted in the abdominal aortic position of 24 dogs autologously . Marrow cells survived and continued exogenous hemopoiesis for up to six months and were immunohistochemically reactive to basic fibroblast growth factor ( bFGF ) . All the grafts older than three weeks had complete endothelialization and maintained their patency . Twenty grafts without bone marrow were implanted as controls . Endothelialization was present at anastomotic sites , but other areas were covered with fresh thrombi . Four out of seven control grafts were patent with endothelial cell lining at six months , but three were occluded and one of the four grafts was still covered with a thrombus layer . Bone marrow with its unique native properties produced autocrine angiogenicity in the graft . Toward a theory regarding the pathogenesis of the systemic inflammatory response syndrome : what we do and do not know about cytokine regulation . OBJECTIVES : The systemic inflammatory response syndrome ( SIRS ) is the massive inflammatory reaction resulting from systemic mediator release that may lead to multiple organ dysfunction . The objective of this review article is to analyze the roles of cytokines , cytokine production , and the relationship of cytokine production to the development of SIRS . DATA SOURCES : Previous research and clinical studies related to cytokines and their relationship to SIRS . STUDY SELECTION : From the studies reviewed , three critical questions are addressed . First , what is the definition of increased cytokine concentrations ? Second , what other systemic illnesses besides sepsis can alter cytokine concentrations ? Third , what are the right cytokines to measure ? DATA SYNTHESIS : This article postulates a three - stage development of SIRS , in which stage 1 is a local production of cytokines in response to an injury or infection . Stage 2 is the protective release of a small amount of cytokines into the body ' s circulation . Stage 3 is the massive systemic reaction where cytokines turn destructive by compromising the integrity of the capillary walls and flooding end organs . CONCLUSIONS : While cytokines are generally viewed as a destructive development in the patient that generally leads to multiple organ dysfunction , cytokines also protect the body when localized . It will be necessary to study the positive effects of cytokines while also studying their role in causing SIRS . It will also be important to investigate the relationship between cytokines and their blockers in SIRS . Application of clonal analysis . Differential diagnosis for synchronous primary ovarian and endometrial cancers and metastatic cancer . Simultaneous involvement of the endometrium and the ovary by carcinoma is a familiar problem in the routine practice of surgical pathology . Such cases may be considered either examples of a single primary carcinoma with metastasis or as synchronous primary neoplasms . The distinction between these two possibilities is made based on clinicopathologic observations , and therefore may not be definitive . In the present study , the authors used molecular techniques to analyze the clonal composition of five cases of concurrent adenocarcinomas of the endometrium and ovary that were clinicopathologically diagnosed as synchronous primary tumors . Patterns of X - chromosome inactivation , mutations in the K - ras gene , mutations or allelic loss of the p53 gene , or human papillomavirus detection were identical in both endometrial and ovarian lesions in three of the cases suggesting that those three cases represented single primary tumors with metastases . In both of the other two cases , the patterns of X - chromosome inactivation clearly demonstrated the presence of independent primary tumors . The application of molecular technology may play an important role for the differential diagnosis between synchronous primary carcinomas and a single carcinoma with metastasis . Pancreatic somatostatin - secreting gangliocytic paraganglioma with lymph node metastases . Gangliocytic paraganglioma ( GPG ) with local lymph node metastasis was found in the pancreas of a 74 - yr - old female who presented with diarrhea , steatorrhea , vomiting , nausea , and abdominal pain . A Whipple procedure led to a complete resolution of these symptoms and a return of an elevated stomatostatin level to normal . This is the first description of GPG in this location and the first endocrinologically active GPG . Molecular biology of cervical cancer and its precursors . Cervical cancer develops from well - defined precursor lesions referred to as either cervical intraepithelial neoplasia or squamous intraepithelial lesions . It is now known that specific types of human papillomaviruses ( HPV ) are the principal etiologic agents for both cervical cancer and its precursors . The high - oncogenic - risk HPV types associated with invasive cervical cancer produce two oncoproteins , designated E6 and E7 , which interact with endogenous cell cycle regulatory proteins , including p53 and Rb . The interaction of virally derived and endogenous cellular proteins converges in deregulation of cell cycle progression and appears to be critical for the development of cervical cancers . However , the development of cervical cancer is a multistep process that cannot be explained simply by infection with specific types of HPV . One additional event that appears to play a role in tumor progression is integration of HPV DNA into the host genome . Integration of HPV DNA frequently disrupts the E2 open reading frames , resulting in overexpression of the E6 and E7 oncoproteins and possibly causing genomic instability . Additional cofactors and mutational events may be important in the pathogenesis of invasive cervical cancers and may include chromosomal rearrangements , loss of constitutional heterozygosity , and proto - oncogene activation . Cell surface binding characteristics correlate with consensus type I interferon enhanced activity . The binding characteristics of a genetically engineered consensus interferon with unusually high biologic activity were compared to the characteristics of recombinant interferon - alpha 2 . Both interferon - alpha 2 and the consensus interferon produced typical biphasic Scatchard plots , indicating multiple independent binding sites . The consensus interferon , which exhibited a biologic potency more than 10 - fold greater than all other type I interferons , also exhibited binding site affinities greater than those for IFN - alpha 2b . In addition , a larger number of high , and low - affinity cell surface sites were recognized by the consensus interferon , resulting in equivalent numbers of sites at reduced molar concentrations compared to IFN - a2b . Thus , at any given biologic activity , similar numbers of sites were bound by the consensus interferon and IFN - alpha 2 , despite differences in their molar concentrations . No differences in internalization kinetics were identified between the two interferons , indicating that the differences in cell surface binding may be sufficient to produce the differences in biologic activity . Human immunodeficiency virus type 1 viral background plays a major role in development of resistance to protease inhibitors . The observed in vitro and in vivo benefit of combination treatment with anti - human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV ) agents prompted us to examine the potential of resistance development when two protease inhibitors are used concurrently . Recombinant HIV - 1 ( NL4 - 3 ) proteases containing combined resistance mutations associated with BMS - 186318 and A - 77003 ( or saquinavir ) were either inactive or had impaired enzyme activity . Subsequent construction of HIV - 1 ( NL4 - 3 ) proviral clones containing the same mutations yielded viruses that were severely impaired in growth or nonviable , confirming that combination therapy may be advantageous . However , passage of BMS - 186318 - resistant HIV - 1 ( RF ) in the presence of either saquinavir or SC52151 , which represented sequential drug treatment , produced viable viruses resistant to both BMS - 186318 and the second compound . The predominant breakthrough virus contained the G48V / A71T / V82A protease mutations . The clone - purified RF ( G48V / A71T / V82A ) virus , unlike the corresponding defective NL4 - 3 triple mutant , grew well and displayed cross - resistance to four distinct protease inhibitors . Chimeric virus and in vitro mutagenesis studies indicated that the RF - specific protease sequence , specifically the Ile at residue 10 , enabled the NL4 - 3 strain with the triple mutant to grow . Our results clearly indicate that viral genetic background will play a key role in determining whether cross - resistance variants will arise . The effects of radiation on neovascularization in a rat model . It is thought that radiation treatment inhibits neovascularization of recipient and / or graft tissues , and this may account in part for abnormalities in wound healing associated with radiation therapy . We have examined this hypothesis using a model that measures the neovascularization of an implanted foreign material . Expanded polytetrafluoroethylene ( PTFE ) sheets were implanted adjacent to both superficial epigastric vascular pedicles of 63 rats distributed into 7 groups ( n = 7 ) that differed with respect to dose and timing of irradiation . Zero to 10 daily fractions of electron - beam radiation ( 300 cGy each ) were delivered to the implant in the right groin , while the implant in the left groin served as a nonirradiated internal control . Unirradiated animals showed equal neovascularization of both implants . Rats that were irradiated twice ( single fractions at 0 and 24 hours after implantation ) did not show a significant decrease in the neovascularization of the irradiated implant compared with the contralateral control implant . In contrast , the implants that were irradiated three times ( single fractions at 0 , 24 , and 48 hours after implantation ) demonstrated significantly diminished ( greater than 25 percent , p less than 0 . 05 ) neovascularization beyond day 7 , whereas implants irradiated only at 48 hours after implantation did not . Interestingly , neovascularization of the implants irradiated with 10 fractions ( 3000 cGy ) was not significantly decreased compared with irradiation with three fractions ( 900 cGy ) . Irradiation delivered before implantation ( 900 cGy ) inhibited neovascularization significantly less than the same dose administered after implantation . The results of this study suggest that a subclinical cumulative dose of 900 cGy is the threshold for impaired tissue revascularization provided that treatment is delivered immediately after implantation over a 48 - hour interval . Stimulation of endothelial cell migration by vascular permeability factor / vascular endothelial growth factor through cooperative mechanisms involving the alphavbeta3 integrin , osteopontin , and thrombin . We have identified several mechanisms by which the angiogenic cytokine vascular permeability factor / vascular endothelial growth factor ( VPF / VEGF ) likely regulates endothelial cells ( EC ) migration . VPF / VEGF induced dermal microvascular EC expression of mRNAs encoding the alphav and beta3 integrin subunits resulting in increased levels of the alphavbeta3 heterodimer at the cell surface , and VPF / VEGF also induced mRNA encoding osteopontin ( OPN ) , an alphavbeta3 ligand . OPN promoted EC migration in vitro ; and VPF / VEGF induction of alphavbeta3 was accompanied by increased EC migration toward OPN . Because thrombin cleavage of OPN results in substantial enhancement of OPN ' s adhesive properties , and because VPF / VEGF promotes increased microvascular permeability leading to activation of the extrinsic coagulation pathway , we also investigated whether VPF / VEGF facilitates thrombin cleavage of OPN in vivo . Consistent with this hypothesis , co - injection of VPF / VEGF together with OPN resulted in rapid cleavage of OPN by endogenous thrombin . Furthermore , in comparison with native OPN , thrombin - cleaved OPN stimulated a greater rate of EC migration in vitro , which was additive to the increased migration associated with induction of alpha v beta 3 . Thus , these data demonstrate cooperative mechanisms for VPF / VEGF regulation of EC migration involving the alphavbeta3 integrin , the alphavbeta3 ligand OPN , and thrombin cleavage of OPN . These findings also illustrate an operational link between VPF / VEGF induction of EC gene expression and VPF / VEGF enhancement of microvascular permeability , suggesting that these distinct biological activities may act accordingly to stimulate EC migration during angiogenesis . Referral bias among health workers in studies using hospitalization as a proxy measure of the underlying incidence rate . Contacts with health services like hospitals or general practitioners are usually the only available proxy measure of incidence of disease in studies based on secondary data and differential referrals or care - seeking behavior often bias such proxy measures . In former analyses based on the Occupational Hospitalization Register in Denmark assisting nurses had high Standardized Hospitalization Ratios for many diseases . It was , however , suspected that it fully or partly was due to a referral bias or self - selection to hospital treatment rather than exposures to occupational hazards . The aim of the present study is to evaluate the referral bias hypothesis by comparing hospitalization and mortality data for health workers for a disease category with a high mortality . Cohorts of all gainfully employed 20 - to 59 - year - old Danes were formed in order to compare Standardized Mortality Ratios and Standardized Hospitalization Ratios of ischemic heart disease ( IHD ) in occupational groups . The follow - up period was 10 years . For most of the investigated occupational groups a similar disease pattern was found whether hospitalization or death was used as the outcome measure . In " nurse assistants " a statistically significant higher risk was , however , found using hospitalization due to IHD as the end point rather than mortality . Additional analysis did not support the hypothesis that the finding could be explained by differentiated hospitalization due to social factors . The true incidence rates of the disease need not be equally well described by proxy measures such as hospitalization diagnosis or death diagnosis in all occupational groups . Differential access to medical treatment in some groups may lead to bias when hospital data are used as proxy measures for the underlying incidence rates . Prognostic value of angiogenesis in operable non - small cell lung cancer . Tumour angiogenesis is an important factor for tumour growth and metastasis . Although some recent reports suggest that microvessel counts in non - small cell lung cancer are related to a poor disease outcome , the results were not conclusive and were not compared with other molecular prognostic markers . In the present study , the vascular grade was assessed in 107 ( T1 , 2 - N0 , 1 ) operable non - small cell lung carcinomas , using the JC70 monoclonal antibody to CD31 . Three vascular grades were defined with appraisal by eye and by Chalkley counting : high ( Chalkley score 7 - 12 ) , medium ( 5 - 6 ) , and low ( 2 - 4 ) . There was a significant correlation between eye appraisal and Chalkley counting ( P less than 0 . 0001 ) . Vascular grade was not related to histology , grade , proliferation index ( Ki67 ) , or EGFR or p53 expression . Tumours from younger patients had a higher grade of angiogenesis ( P = 0 . 05 ) . Apart from the vascular grade , none of the other factors examined was statistically related to lymph node metastasis ( P less than 0 . 0001 ) . A univariate analysis of survival showed that vascular grade was the most significant prognostic factor ( P = 0 . 0004 ) , followed by N - stage ( P = 0 . 001 ) . In a multivariate analysis , N - stage and vascular grade were not found to be independent prognostic factors , since they were strongly related to each other . Excluding N - stage , vascular grade was the only independent prognostic factor ( P = 0 . 007 ) . Kaplan - Meier survival curves showed a statistically significant worse prognosis for patients with high vascular grade , but no difference was observed between low and medium vascular grade . These data suggest that angiogenesis in operable non - small cell lung cancer is a major prognostic factor for survival and , among the parameters tested , is the only factor related to cancer cell migration to lymph nodes . The integration of vascular grading in clinical trials on adjuvant chemotherapy and / or radiotherapy could substantially contribute in defining groups of operable patients who might benefit from cytotoxic treatment . The impact of multiskilling on quality of care . Hospital finances in the USA are in a crisis . While profits earned from the healthcare industry appear to be at an all - time high , individual hospitals are going bankrupt . Hospitals are not generating sufficient income to pay their expenses given how they have traditionally operated . Hence , we are witnessing the merger and consolidation of competitors , resulting in significantly fewer hospital beds in certain geographical areas . In addition to the strategy of closing hospital beds , severe budget restrictions are impacting upon all remaining services within the hospitals . Vitamin E inhibits experimental carcinogenesis and tumour angiogenesis . In an experiment in which vitamin E inhibited carcinogenesis , it was found that tumour angiogenesis and tumour growth - factor alpha ( TGF alpha ) expression were also inhibited . Forty male golden hamsters were divided into four equal groups . Group 1 animals had the left buccal pouches painted three times weekly with 7 , 12 - dimethylbenz ( a ) anthracene ( DMBA ) for 14 weeks . Group 2 animals had the same procedure of DMBA applications but also received alpha tocopherol . Groups 3 and 4 were vitamin E and untreated controls . Angiogenesis was studied with factor 8 - related antigen ( F8 - RA ) which identifies endothelial cells . TGF alpha was studied with the appropriate antibody . Staining was effected by the standard avidin - biotin horseradish peroxidase system . Mean tumour volume was significantly lower in the DMBA - vitamin E group compared to the tumour control group . Angiogenesis was significantly inhibited in the DMBA - vitamin E group and TGF alpha expression was also inhibited . It is suggested that inhibition of tumour angiogenesis by vitamin E may be an additional mechanism for the anticancer action of vitamin E . Acetaminophen and hepatic dysfunction in infectious mononucleosis . Two family members developed severe hepatitic dysfunction in association with infectious mononucleosis and acetaminophen administration . Since severe hepatitis is an extremely rare complication of infectious mononucleosis , we postulate that the hepatic dysfunction was induced by acetaminophen . Syndecan - 1 expression in mammary epithelial tumor cells is E - cadherin - dependent . E - cadherin is a Ca ( 2 + ) - dependent cell - cell adhesion molecule , which is mainly expressed in epithelial cells . Recent studies have shown that E - cadherin has an important role as an invasion suppressor molecule in epithelial tumor cells . Syndecan - 1 is a cell surface proteoglycan that has been implicated in a number of cellular functions including cell - cell adhesion , cell - matrix anchorage and growth factor presentation for signalling receptors . Its suppression has also been shown to be associated with malignant transformation of epithelial cells . In order to better understand the coordinated regulation of cell - cell and cell - matrix interactions during malignant transformation , we have studied the expression of syndecan - 1 in malignant mammary tumor cells genetically manipulated for E - cadherin expression . In invasive NM - e - ras - MAC1 cells , where E - cadherin was partially downregulated by specific antisense RNA , syndecan - 1 expression was suppressed . Furthermore , transfection of E - cadherin cDNA into invasive NM - f - ras - TD cells resulted in the upregulation of syndecan - 1 expression in association with decreased invasiveness . In both cases , regulation of syndecan - 1 occurred post - transcriptionally , since syndecan - 1 mRNA levels remained unchanged . Instead , a translational regulation is suggested , since syndecan - 1 core protein synthesis was E - cadherin dependent . Another cell adhesion protein , beta 1 - integrin was not affected by E - cadherin expression . The data provide an example of coordinated changes in the expression of two cell adhesion molecules , syndecan - 1 and E - cadherin during epithelial cell transformation . Curcumin induces apoptosis in immortalized NIH 3T3 and malignant cancer cell lines . Curcumin , which is a widely used dietary pigment and spice , has been demonstrated to be an effective inhibitor of tumor promotion in mouse skin carcinogenesis . We report that curcumin induces cell shrinkage , chromatin condensation , and DNA fragmentation , characteristics of apoptosis , in immortalized mouse embryo fibroblast NIH 3T3 erb B2 oncogene - transformed NIH 3T3 , mouse sarcoma S180 , human colon cancer cell HT - 29 , human kidney cancer cell 293 , and human hepatocellular carcinoma Hep G2 cells , but not in primary culture of mouse embryonic fibroblast C3H 10T1 / 2 , rat embryonic fibroblast , and human foreskin fibroblast cells in a concentration - and time - dependent manner . Many cellular and biochemical effects of curcumin in mouse fibroblast cells have been reported , such as inhibition of protein kinase C ( PKC ) activity induced by phorbol 12 - myristate 13 - acetate treatment , inhibition of tyrosine protein kinase activity , and inhibition of arachidonic acid ( AA ) metabolism . Treatment of NIH 3T3 cells with the PKC inhibitor staurosporine , the tyrosine kinase inhibitor herbimycin A , and the AA metabolism inhibitor quinacrine induces apoptotic cell death . These results suggest that , in some immortalized and transformed cells , blocking the cellular signal transduction might trigger the induction of apoptosis . c - erb B2 overexpression decreases the benefit of adjuvant tamoxifen in early - stage breast cancer without axillary lymph node metastases . PURPOSE : We studied retrospectively the interaction between c - erbB2 overexpression and adjuvant tomoxifen in node - negative breast cancer patients enrolled in the Gruppo Universitario Napoletano 1 ( GUN - 1 ) trial . PATIENTS AND METHODS : c - erbB2 , evaluated by immunohistochemistry in 145 of 173 patients randomly assigned to 2 - year adjuvant tamoxifen or no further therapy , was considered overexpressed if greater than 10 % of the cells showed specific membrane staining . The role of each prognostic variable and their independent effect were studied using the Cox model . Disease - free ( DFS ) and overall ( OAS ) survival curves were estimated by the Kaplan - Meier method . RESULTS : As of November 30 , 1994 , the median follow - up period was 12 years . c - erbB2 was overexpressed in 43 of 145 patients ( 29 . 7 % ) , which directly correlated with tumor size and inversely with estrogen receptor ( ER ) level . At univariate analysis , overexpression of c - erbB2 did not affect either DFS or OAS ; tamoxifen had a greater effect on reducing the risk of recurrence than of death . Addition of c - erbB2 to a multivariate Cox model that contained menopausal status , tumor size , nuclear grade , and treatment as covariates did not affect the significance of the model for DSF or OAS , whereas addition of the first - order interaction between c - erbB2 and tamoxifen was statistically significant both for DFS and OAS . The same result was obtained when the model contained ER status and ER - tamoxifen interaction . Indeed , adjuvant tamoxifen significantly prolonged DFS and OAS in c - erbB2 - negative cases , whereas it had no effect on DFS and OAS in c - erbB2 - positive patients . CONCLUSION : In early - stage breast cancer patients , overexpression of c - erbB2 is a marker of lack of efficacy of adjuvant tamoxifen . Gene transfer of naked DNA encoding for three isoforms of vascular endothelial growth factor stimulates collateral development in vivo . Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) is a naturally secreted endothelial cell - specific mitogen . We investigated the hypothesis that naked DNA encoding for VEGF could be used in a strategy of arterial gene therapy to stimulate collateral artery development . Plasmid DNA encoding each of the three principal human VEGF isoforms ( phVEGF121 , phVEGF165 , or phVEGF189 ) was applied to the hydrogel polymer coating of an angioplasty balloon and delivered percutaneously to one iliac artery of rabbits with operatively induced hindlimb ischemia . Compared with control animals transfected with LacZ , site - specific transfection of phVEGF resulted in augmented collateral vessel development documented by serial angiography , and improvement in calf blood pressure ratio ( ischemic to normal limb ) , resting and maximum blood flow , and capillary to myocyte ratio . Similar results were obtained with phVEGF121 , phVEGF165 , and phVEGF189 , which suggests that these isoforms are biologically equivalent with respect to in vivo angiogenesis . The fact that viral or other adjunctive vectors were not required further suggests that secreted gene products may have potential therapeutic utility even when the number of successfully transfected cells remains low . Arterial gene transfer of naked DNA encoding for a secreted angiogenic cytokine , thus , represents a potential alternative to recombinant protein administration for stimulating collateral vessel development . Metastasis - associated 5T4 antigen disrupts cell - cell contacts and induces cellular motility in epithelial cells . The 5T4 antigen is defined by a monoclonal antibody ( MAb ) specific for human trophoblast . It is also expressed by many types of tumour cell and has been associated with metastasis and poor clinical outcome in a number of cancers . This pattern of expression is consistent with a mechanistic involvement of 5T4 molecules in the spread of cancer cells . The 5T4 antigen is a transmembrane glycoprotein with a 310 amino acid extracellular domain and a 44 amino acid cytoplasmic domain . Transfection of full - length 5T4 cDNA into epithelial cells alters cell - cell contacts and cellular motility . Thus , in 5T4 - transfected CL - S1 murine mammary cells , 5T4 expression is associated with dendritic morphology , accompanied by abrogation of actin / cadherin - containing contacts and increased motility . In transfected MDCK canine kidney epithelial cells , 5T4 over - expression also results in increased motility , but disruption of cell - cell contacts , either by culturing cells in low calcium medium or by addition of HGF / SF , is needed . The effects of 5T4 expression on morphology and motility are separable since cells transfected with a truncated form of 5T4 cDNA in which the cytoplasmic domain is deleted reveal that the latter is necessary to abrogate actin / cadherin - containing contacts but does not influence the effects on motility . Thus , 5T4 molecules can deliver signals through both the extracellular and intracellular domains , and the resultant effects are consistent with a role for 5T4 molecules in invasion processes . Induction of p18INK4c and its predominant association with CDK4 and CDK6 during myogenic differentiation . Terminal cell differentiation involves permanent withdrawal from the cell division cycle . The inhibitors of cyclin - dependent kinases ( CDKs ) are potential molecules functioning to couple cell cycle arrest and cell differentiation . In murine C2C12 myoblast cells , G1 CDK enzymes ( CDK2 , CDK4 , and CDK6 ) associate with four CDK inhibitors : p18INK4c , p19INK4d , p21 , and p27Kip1 . During induced myogenesis , p21 and its associated CDK proteins underwent an initial increase followed by a decrease as cells became terminally differentiated . The level of p27 protein gradually increased , but the amount of total associated CDK proteins remained unchanged . p19 protein decreased gradually during differentiation , as did its associated CDK4 protein . In contrast , p18 protein increased 50 - fold , from negligible levels in proliferating myoblasts to clearly detectable levels within 8 - 12 h of myogenic induction . This initial rise was followed by a precipitous increase between 12 and 24 h postinduction , with p18 protein finally accumulating to its highest level in terminally differentiated cells . Induction of p18 correlated with increased and sequential complex formation - - first increasing association with CDK6 and then with CDK4 over the course of myogenic differentiation . All of the CDK6 and half of the CDK4 were complexed with p18 in terminally differentiated C2C12 cells as well as in adult mouse muscle tissue . Finally , kinase activity of CDK2 and CDK4 decreases as C2C12 cells differentiate , whereas the CDK6 kinase activity is low in both proliferating myoblasts and differentiated myotubes . Our results indicate that p18 may play a critical role in causing and / or maintaining permanent cell cycle arrest associated with mature muscle formation . Defective biliary copper excretion in Wilson ' s disease : the role of caeruloplasmin . Previous studies have failed to explain the link between copper accumulation and abnormal caeruloplasmin expression in Wilson ' s disease . Furthermore , despite the isolation of a candidate gene for Wilson ' s disease , which predicts a defective copper transport protein , the localization of this putative protein and its relationship to the pathway involved in copper excretion and to caeruloplasmin remain unknown . We now present evidence that caeruloplasmin , the major plasma copper - carrying protein , is present in the liver in Wilson ' s disease , and thus that reduced circulating levels of the protein result from a post - translational defect in the secretory pathway . We have also identified a novel form of caeruloplasmin , molecular weight 125 kD , which we propose may act as the carrier for excretory copper into bile , since it is normally present in both liver and bile , although largely absent from serum , and undetectable in bile from Wilson ' s disease patients . The presence of this form of caeruloplasmin in Wilson ' s disease liver suggests that a related post - translational defect may also be responsible for its absence from bile in Wilson ' s disease . This study thus provides the first plausible explanation of a link between the defective copper excretion and the reduced plasma caeruloplasmin , which characterize Wilson ' s disease . Functional model of benign paroxysmal positional vertigo using an isolated frog semicircular canal . Bull frogs posterior semicircular canals ( psc ) wee used to simulate the condition of benign paroxysmal positional vertigo ( BPPV ) . The psc was isolated in frog Ringer ' s solution , and the saccular otoconia were used as a responsible material to stimulate the cupula . When the otoconia were placed on the cupular surface to mimic the condition of cupulolithiasis , the psc ampullary nerve action potentials instantaneously changed according to the direction of the gravity produced by otoconia . When the otoconia were dropped into the canal to mimic the condition of moving otoconia in the canal , the action potentials changed together with the otoconial flow after a latent period . Both cupulolithiasis and moving otoconia are possibly valid mechanisms of BPPV , since they effectively stimulate the cupula . However , moving otoconia with a latent period would better explain clinical features of BPPV . Do we know how much people like one another ? Metaperception is a person ' s perception about a second person ' s perception of a third person . The purpose of this article is to examine the accuracy of metaperceptions of liking . A related question concerns whether the heuristics of balance , reciprocity , and agreement are used by perceivers when forming such judgments . The authors present analyses from 5 diverse research studies that used an adaptation of the social relations model for triads ( C . F . Bond , E . M . Horn , & D . A . Kenny , in press ) . The results indicate that people know how much people like one another , even with small amounts of information . Although there is evidence for the use of heuristics , particularly reciprocity and agreement , accuracy is sometimes enhanced by using these heuristics . Genetic heterogeneity evidenced by low incidence of KAL - 1 gene mutations in sporadic cases of gonadotropin - releasing hormone deficiency . Isolated GnRH deficiency is a heritable condition characterized by a functional deficit in GnRH secretion . Familial cases with different modes of inheritance have been described , and the gene responsible for the X - linked form ( KAL - 1 ) has been identified . However , sporadic cases with no documented family history of GnRH deficiency account for the majority of the affected patients . For this reason , we sought to determine the frequency with which KAL - 1 gene mutations occur in patients with sporadic GnRH deficiency . Only 1 of 21 patients with sporadic GnRH deficiency was found to bear a defect in the KAL - 1 gene ( a deletion of 14 bases starting at codon 464 ) . Three types of polymorphic single base substitutions with no apparent correlation with GnRH deficiency were also detected in several patients . In each of 3 different patients with an X - linked mode of inheritance , 3 genetic defects , 2 point mutations and a small intragenic deletion , were detected . These defects consist of a single base mutation introducing a stop codon at position 328 , a single base mutation resulting in a phenylalanine to leucine substitution at position 517 , and a 9 - base deletion at the 3 ' - exon - intron splice site of exon 8 , respectively . All identified genetic defects occur within the fibronectin type III repeats of the predicted protein encoded by the KAL - 1 gene . In conclusion , our study indicates that the incidence of genetic defects within the coding region of the KAL - 1 gene in patients with sporadic GnRH deficiency is low ( 5 - 8 % ) , thus supporting the idea that the X - linked form of inheritance represents the least common form of the disease . [ Considerations regarding two cases of macromastia ( author ' s transl ) ] . Two cases of macromastia have been shown ; one which appeared during puberty , the other during menopause . Histopathological examination has demonstrated for the both cases a cystic degeneracy of the glandular tissue with a hyperplazia and hypertrophy of the conjunctive tissue . The pathogeny of macromastia is being discussed and it is demonstrated both the role of hypophysis hormones ( prolactine and growth hormone ) and of ovarian hormones ( estrogens ) . The treatment was surgical for the both cases . The effect of early diagnosis and treatment in cystic fibrosis : a seven - year study of 16 sibling pairs . Data on 16 sibling pairs with cystic fibrosis were analyzed to test the hypothesis that early treatment of this condition improves prognosis . Younger siblings ' conditions were diagnosed before 1 year of age , usually before the onset of pulmonary disease . Older siblings ' conditions were diagnosed after 1 year of age and after the onset of pulmonary disease . Although the sibling pairs received similar treatment , comparison at 7 years of age showed that the younger siblings had significantly better chest roentgenogram scores , total clinical scores , residual lung volumes , and ratios of residual volume to total lung volume . Younger siblings also required fewer hospital admissions to control their lung disease . The results suggest that , in general , early initiation of therapy is beneficial for patients with cystic fibrosis . Comparison of transformation by manganese sulfate and 5 - azacytidine in Rat 6 cells overexpressing the c - myc oncogene . Rat 6 cells are not transformed by treatment with the well - known carcinogens benzo [ a ] pyrene ( BP ) or N - methyl - N - nitro - N ' - nitrosoguanidine ( MNNG ) . Upon retroviral transduction of the mouse c - myc gene , Rat 6 cells showed mildly altered morphology and formed microcolonies in soft agar ; furthermore , they could be transformed by BP and MNNG to form large colonies in agar ( Hsiao et al . ( 1992 ) Mol . Carcinogenesis , 5 , 140 - 154 ) . In the current report , we tested the sensitivity of the c - myc - overexpressing cells ( Rat 6 / c - myc ) to two additional chemicals : 5 - azacytidine and MnSO4 . These chemicals differ from the direct - acting mutagens tested previously . 5 - Azacytidine , a potent DNA methylation inhibitor , induced growth of large colonies in soft agar cultures of Rat 6 or Rat 6 / c - myc cells . On the other hand , MnSO4 only induced transformation in Rat 6 / c - myc cells , but not the parental Rat 6 cells . Transformants induced by 5 - azacytidine lost c - myc - induced apoptotic cell death , whereas MnSO4 - induced transformants showed a higher degree of apoptosis than the parental Rat 6 / c - myc cells . These results suggest that MnSO4 co - operates with overexpressed c - myc in inducing transformation , while 5 - azacytidine transformation is independent of c - myc overexpression and may involve alterations in the regulation of apoptosis . Fas - signaling and effects on receptor tyrosine kinase signal transduction in human breast epithelial cells . Fas - mediated cell death was examined in MCF - 10AT preneoplastic human breast epithelial cells . Treatment with anti - Fas for 48 h induced apoptosis with cells exhibiting typical apoptotic features including loss of cell contact , condensation of chromatin , and increased staining of the nuclear membrane . DNA fragmentation occurred in response to anti - Fas treatment . Anti - Fas treatment resulted in decreased p53 protein levels , while bcl - 2 and bax protein levels remained unaffected . Cells treated with anti - Fas also exhibited increased tyrosine phosphorylation of the c - met growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase . Immunoprecipitation experiments demonstrated that Fas associated with c - erbB2 and c - met in untreated cells . Treatment with anti - Fas , however , significantly decreased Fas - c - erbB2 and Fas - c - met association . Anti - Fas treatment of these cells caused a significant decrease in p120 - GAP levels , ERK - 1 levels , and phosphorylation , as well as Grb2 - Sosl and MEK - 1 - ERK - 1 association . These results show that Fas - signaling exerted a suppressive effect on p53 levels and on downstream effectors of receptor tyrosine kinase signal transduction , thereby ensuring cell death . Prevention of hepatic tumor metastases in rats with herpes viral vaccines and gamma - interferon . Previous studies showed that gammaIFN decreases metastatic hepatic tumor growth by stimulating Kupffer cells ( KC ) . The present studies examine whether lymphocyte stimulation via cells engineered to secrete GM - CSF or IL - 2 decreases hepatic tumor growth , and whether stimulation of both macrophages and lymphocytes is more effective than either individually . Rats were immunized with irradiated hepatoma cells transduced by herpes viral amplicon vectors containing the genes for GM - CSF , IL - 2 or LacZ . On day 18 , half of each group was treated with 5 x 10 ( 4 ) U gammaIFN , or saline intraperitoneally for 3 d . On day 21 , all rats received 5 x 10 ( 5 ) hepatoma cells intrasplenically . On day 41 , rats were killed and tumor nodules were counted . Separate rats underwent splenocyte and KC harvest for assessment of lymphocyte - and macrophage - mediated tumor cell kill in vitro . GM - CSF or IL - 2 vaccines or gammaIFN decreased tumor nodules significantly ( GM - CSF 13 + / - 4 , IL - 2 14 + / - 6 vs . control 75 + / - 24 , P < 0 . 001 ) . Combination therapy was more effective , and completely eliminated tumor in 4 of 12 IFN - GM - CSF and 8 of 11 IFN - IL - 2 animals . Additional rats underwent partial hepatectomy , an immunosuppressive procedure known to accelerate the growth of hepatic tumor , following tumor challenge . Therapy was equally effective in this immunosuppressive setting . Vaccination is associated with enhancement of splenocyte - mediated tumoricidal activity , whereas the effect of gammaIFN is mediated by KC . GM - CSF and IL - 2 vaccine therapy and pretreatment with gammaIFN represent effective strategies in reducing hepatic tumor . Combination therapy targets both lymphocytes and macrophages , and is more effective in reducing tumor than either therapy alone . [ Effects of carcinostatic agents in the hematogenous metastasis of cancer ] . The experimental studies in vitro and in vivo were performed to investigate the effects of carcinostatic agents in the adhesion of cancer cells to endothelial cells . Certain carcinostatic agents induce the expression of E - selectin on endothelial cells and enhance the expression of carbohydrate ligands on cancer cells . Consequently , increased adhesion of cancer cells to endothelial cells was observed by the treatment of carcinostatic agents . In the trans - splenic hepatic metastasis model using nude mice , the augmentation of cancer metastasis was observed by the treatment of carcinostatic agents . From the above , we concluded that carcinostatic agents may increase the metastatic ability of cancer cells in patients with cancer . Procedural memory stimulation in Alzheimer ' s disease : impact of a training programme . The study evaluates the efficacy of a procedural memory stimulation programme in mild and mild - moderate Alzheimer ' s disease ( AD ) . Twenty basic and instrumental activities of daily living have been selected , and divided into two groups , comparable for difficulty . Ten normal elderly subjects ( age 68 . 0 + / - 4 . 8 years ; MMSE score : 28 . 7 + / - 0 . 9 ; education : 7 . 6 + / - 3 . 5 years ) were asked to perform the two groups of daily activities and the time required to perform the tasks of each group was recorded and used as a reference . Ten mild and mild - moderate AD patients ( age 77 . 2 + / - 5 . 3 years ; MMSE score : 19 . 8 + / - 3 . 5 ; education : 7 . 3 + / - 4 . 7 years ) without major behavioural disturbances constituted the experimental group . Patients were evaluated in all 20 daily activities and the time employed was recorded at baseline and after a 3 - week training ( 1 h / d , 5 d / week ) period . Five patients were trained during the 3 weeks on half of the 20 daily activities and the other five patients were trained on the remainder . This procedure was adopted in order to detect separately the improvement in " trained " and " not trained " activities , allowing to control better the effects of the intervention . The assessment of the functional impact of the training was directly measured , through the variation of time employed to perform tasks before and after training . After 3 weeks of training a significant improvement was observed for the trained activities , from 3 . 6 to 1 . 9 standard deviations below the performance of the normal elderly controls ( P < 0 . 05 ) . AD patients improved also in not - trained activities from 3 . 5 to 2 . 7 standard deviations below the controls ' performance ( P < 0 . 05 ) . The rehabilitation of activities of daily living through developing procedural memory strategies may be effective in mild and mild - moderate AD patients . Regulation of p53 - dependent apoptosis , transcriptional repression , and cell transformation by phosphorylation of the 55 - kilodalton E1B protein of human adenovirus type 5 . The adenovirus type 5 55 - kDa E1B protein ( E1B - 55kDa ) cooperates with E1A gene products to induce cell transformation . E1A proteins stimulate DNA synthesis and cell proliferation ; however , they also cause rapid cell death by p53 - dependent and p53 - independent apoptosis . It is believed that the role of the E1B - 55kDa protein in transformation is to protect against p53 - dependent apoptosis by binding to and inactivating p53 . It has been shown previously that the 55 - kDa polypeptide abrogates p53 - mediated transactivation and that mutants defective in p53 binding are unable to cooperate with E1A in transformation . We have previously mapped phosphorylation sites near the carboxy terminus of the E1B - 55kDa protein at Ser - 490 and Ser - 491 , which lie within casein kinase II consensus sequences . Conversion of these sites to alanine residues greatly reduced transforming activity , and although the mutant 55 - kDa protein was found to interact with p53 at normal levels , it was somewhat defective for suppression of p53 transactivation activity . We now report that a nearby residue , Thr - 495 , also appears to be phosphorylated . We demonstrate directly that the wild - type 55 - kDa protein is able to block E1A - induced p53 - dependent apoptosis , whereas cells infected by mutant pm490 / 1 / 5A , which contains alanine residues at all three phosphorylation sites , exhibited extensive DNA fragmentation and classic apoptotic cell death . The E1B - 55kDa product has been shown to exhibit intrinsic transcriptional repression activity when localized to promoters , such as by fusion with the GAL4 DNA - binding domain , even in the absence of p53 . Such repression activity was totally absent with mutant pm490 / 1 / 5A . These data suggested that inhibition of p53 - dependent apoptosis may depend on the transcriptional repression function of the 55 - kDa protein , which appears to be regulated be phosphorylation at the carboxy terminus . Non - invasive grading of primary brain tumours : results of a comparative study between SPET with 123I - alpha - methyl tyrosine and PET with 18F - deoxyglucose . Use of iodine - 123 - alpha - methyl tyrosine ( 123I - IMT ) allows investigation of the amino acid transport rate in gliomas . It was the aim of this study to compare the value of measurement of glucose metabolism with that of measurement of 123I - IMT uptake for the non - invasive grading of brain tumours . The study population comprised 23 patients with histopathologically proven primary brain tumours ; 14 had high - grade gliomas , and nine low - grade brain neoplasms . Glucose metabolism was studied using an ECAT EXACT 47 positron emission tomography ( PET ) camera and fluorine - 18 fluorodeoxyglucose ( 18F - FDG ) ; 123I - IMT uptake was measured with the triple - headed single - photon emission tomography ( SPET ) camera , MULTISPECT 3 . 18F - FDG and 123I - IMT uptake was quantified as ratios between the uptake by the tumour and contralateral regions of reference . Glucose metabolism and amino acid uptake of the brain tumours correlated significantly ( r = 0 . 71 , P < 0 . 001 ) . Assuming discrimination thresholds between high - grade and low - grade tumours of 0 . 8 for 18F - FDG uptake and 1 . 8 for 123I - IMT uptake , the accuracy values of 18F - FDG PET and 123I - IMT SPET for differentiating between high - grade and low - grade tumours were 21 / 23 ( 91 % ) and 19 / 23 ( 83 % ) , respectively . The difference in diagnostic performance was not significant on receiver operating characteristic analysis ( P > 0 . 4 ) . It is concluded that there is no major difference between the PET investigation of glucose metabolism and the less expensive SPET measurement of amino acid uptake in terms of their accuracy in evaluating the malignancy grade of primary brain tumours . This encourages the performance of further studies to analyse the potential impact of 123I - IMT SPET on the therapeutic management of patients with brain tumours . Some findings concerning beliefs about alcoholism . The beliefs that alcoholics hold about alcoholism and themselves , and the beliefs that hospital staff and other personnel hold about alcoholism , were investigated using methods derived from the repertory grid , with anonymous facial photographs as elements . Data are presented as to the degree of association of various characteristics with alcoholism for the various groups . Differences between groups , and overall changes during group psychotherapy for patients were small . The relative contribution of personal and shared aspects of belief was measured . It was found that the agreement between groups was high and closely similar to that predictable from consistencies within groups . It is concluded that there may be a very general stereotype of alcoholism , consistent with a personality disorder concept which is implicitly held even in the face of nominal acceptance of other concepts . The self constructs of alcoholics were found to be complex . In a small follow - up study of patients , there was found to be a relationship of poor outcome with tightness of construing for key constructs after psychotherapy . The implications of the findings are discussed briefly . The effects of oxidative stress on in vivo brain GSH turnover in young and mature mice . Glutathione ( GSH ) synthetase activities and GSH turnover rates were examined during severe oxidative stress in the mouse brain as induced by t - butylhydroperoxide ( t - BuOOH ) . Brain GSH synthetase activities in 8 - mo - old mice in the cortex , striatum , thalamus , hippocampus , midbrain , and cerebellum were found to increase following t - BuOOH treatment . The effect of GSH synthesis on brain GSH turnover rates for 2 - and 8 - mo - old mice were determined after intracerebroventricular ( icv ) injection of [ 35S ] cysteine . Rate constants for GSH turnover were determined by least - squares iterative minimization from the specific activity data from 20 min to 108 h after [ 35S ] cysteine administration . GSH and glutathione disulfide ( GSSG ) specific activities were determined after separation by high - pressure liquid chromatography ( HPLC ) . The half - life of GSH in the 2 - mo - old mouse was 59 . 5 h and in the 8 - mo - old mouse was 79 . 1 h . In summary , defense mechanisms against oxidative stress in the brain differ with age . Young mice can increase the cellular availability of GSH , whereas mature mice can increase GSH synthetase activity during oxidative stress . These differences make mature mice more susceptible to brain oxidative damage . Changes in plasminogen activator inhibitor - 1 levels in non - small cell lung cancer . Increased urokinase plasminogen activator ( uPA ) levels are increased in a number of malignancies and have been correlated with decreased disease - free interval and decreased overall survival . We have , therefore , examined components of this plasminogen activating system in patients with Non - Small Cell Lung Cancer ( NSCLC ) . Levels of uPA , urokinase - plasminogen activator receptor ( uPAR ) and plasminogen activator inhibitor - 1 ( PAI - 1 ) were measured semiquantitatively in paraffin sections of tumours from 147 patients with NSCLC . Immunohistochemically stained sections of tumour were allocated a score for stain intensity and results correlated to : survival ; tumour stage ( T ) ; nodal stage ( N ) ; stage grouping ( I to IIIb ) , survival status and sex . Increased levels of PAI - 1 were associated with a decreased survival in squamous cell carcinoma ( SCC ) X2 = 5 . 72 , p = 0 . 017 ( n = 74 ) . There was a significant positive relationship between PAI - 1 levels and N - stage ( p = < 0 . 05 ) , presence of nodal metastases ( p = < 0 . 05 ) , stage grouping ( p = < 0 . 01 ) and extent of disease ( p = < 0 . 05 ) in the total group and the SCC subgroup , but not adenocarcinoma . There was a significant positive relationship between PAI - 1 levels and T - stage ( p = < 0 . 05 ) in the total group , and survival status ( p = < 0 . 05 ) in the SCC subgroup alone . uPA and uPAR levels were not significantly associated with tumour staging or survival . We conclude that increased PAI - 1 antigen levels may be associated with a decreased survival in patients with SCC . Insulin - like growth factor I induces tumor hexokinase RNA expression in cancer cells . Increased glycolysis is a characteristic of cancer cells . Though less efficient in energy production , it ensures continuous supply of energy and phosphometabolites for biosynthesis enabling metastatic and less vascularized cancer cells to proliferate even under hypoxic conditions . Since hexokinase is the first rate limiting enzyme in the glycolytic pathway , elevated levels of Type II like hexokinase in tumors are of great significance in this context . Under normal conditions insulin regulates expression of hexokinase Type II isoenzyme , which is predominantly expressed in muscle . On the other hand cancer cells overexpress insulin - like growth factors and their receptors which mimic many activities of insulin . This prompted us to examine a hypothesis that insulin - like growth factors may be responsible for overexpression of tumor hexokinase . Our experiments demonstrate that insulin - like growth factor I indeed induces hexokinase gene expression in a concentration and time dependent manner in two cancer cell lines we studied . The Wilms tumor suppressor gene WT1 induces G1 arrest and apoptosis in myeloblastic leukemia M1 cells . WT1 was isolated as a tumor suppressor gene of Wilms tumor . However , high expression of WT1 correlates with poor prognosis in acute leukemia . In addition suppression of WT1 expression by WT1 anti - sense oligonucleotide inhibits proliferation of leukemia cells , suggesting that WT1 is important for their proliferation . To further elucidate the biological significance of WT1 in leukemic cell growth , we overexpressed exogenous WT1 in murine M1 myeloblastic leukemia cells using the isopropyl - beta - D - thiogalactoside ( IPTG ) - controlled expression system . We found that induction of one splicing variant of WT1 [ WT1 - 17AA ( + ) - KTS ( - ) ] in M1 cells induces cell cycle arrest and apoptotic cell death . These results suggest that the role of WT1 is different depending on the type of leukemia cell in which it is expressed . [ Expression of metastasis suppressor gene nm23 in human hepatocellular carcinoma ] . For the purpose of investigating the relationship between the metastatic potential of the tumor as well as the expression of nm23 - H1 mRNA , and for determing the location of the positive sites in the cells , tumor metastasis suppressor gene nm23 - H1 in human hepatocellular carcinoma ( and the nonneoplastic area surrounding the tumor ) was detected by in situ hybridization using digoxiginin - labeled nm23 - H1 antisense complementary RNA probe . The primary results indicated ( i ) positive results of in situ hybridization are presence of granules or masses in the cytoplasm ; ( ii ) the less expression of nm23 - H1 mRNA , the higher metastatic rate of the human hepatocellular carcinoma ( P < 0 . 05 ) ; ( iii ) expression of nm23 - H1 mRNA dose not correlate with some other factors such as tumor size and the background of other liver diseases . Monitoring the efficiency of interferon - alpha therapy in chronic myelogenous leukemia ( CML ) patients by competitive polymerase chain reaction . Interferon alpha ( IFN - alpha ) induces cytogenetic responses of variable degree in patients with CML . We sought to establish the relationship between BCR - ABL transcript numbers measured by competitive two - step reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction ( RT - PCR ) and cytogenetic status in CML patients treated with IFN - alpha . All 398 samples from 163 patients investigated by RT - PCR were positive for BCR - ABL transcripts . In order to standardize results for variability in RNA and cDNA quality , we quantified total ABL transcripts in each sample as internal control . The BCR - ABL / ABL ratios correlated with the cytogenetic results . Quantitative nested PCR allowed the detection of residual BCR - ABL transcripts in all complete cytogenetic responders on IFN - alpha . We conclude that competitive PCR with internal controls is a reliable method for monitoring patients on IFN - alpha and reduces the need for repeated marrow investigations . Suppression of tumor growth by the 3 ' untranslated region of mel - 18 in 3Y1 cells transformed by the E6 and E7 genes of human papillomavirus type 18 . By introducing a cDNA library derived from rat embryonic fibroblast cells , we isolated several morphologically flat revertants of rat 3Y1 cells transformed by the E6 and E7 genes of human papillomavirus type 18 ( HPV18 ) . From one of the revertants , we recovered a 0 . 2 - kb cDNA , N56 , that suppresses the tumor growth of the transformed 3Y1 cells irrespective of the expression of the E6 and E7 genes . The nucleotide sequence of the cDNA was shown to be identical to that of the 3 ' untranslated region of a putative mammalian polycomb group gene , mel - 18 . [ Treatment of acute liver failure in children ] . Among the main causes of acute liver failure ( ALF ) in children , metabolic diseases ( especially in infants ) , viral and toxin or drug induced hepatitis are the most frequent . The cause remains , however , undetermined in about 30 % of the cases . Management must be conducted in a pediatric hepatology unit or intensive care unit in relation with a pediatric transplant team in order : 1 ) to perform urgent etiological diagnosis ; 2 ) to initiate specific therapy and symptomatic treatment ; 3 ) to evaluate the severity and prognosis of liver disease for selection of children for emergency liver transplantation ; 4 ) to evaluate contraindications to liver transplantation . The overall survival of post - emergency liver transplantation for ALF in children averages 65 % . Blind separation of auditory event - related brain responses into independent components . Averaged event - related potential ( ERP ) data recorded from the human scalp reveal electroencephalographic ( EEG ) activity that is reliably time - locked and phase - locked to experimental events . We report here the application of a method based on information theory that decomposes one or more ERPs recorded at multiple scalp sensors into a sum of components with fixed scalp distributions and sparsely activated , maximally independent time courses . Independent component analysis ( ICA ) decomposes ERP data into a number of components equal to the number of sensors . The derived components have distinct but not necessarily orthogonal scalp projections . Unlike dipole - fitting methods , the algorithm does not model the locations of their generators in the head . Unlike methods that remove second - order correlations , such as principal component analysis ( PCA ) , ICA also minimizes higher - order dependencies . Applied to detected - and undetected - target ERPs from an auditory vigilance experiment , the algorithm derived ten components that decomposed each of the major response peaks into one or more ICA components with relatively simple scalp distributions . Three of these components were active only when the subject detected the targets , three other components only when the target went undetected , and one in both cases . Three additional components accounted for the steady - state brain response to a 39 - Hz background click train . Major features of the decomposition proved robust across sessions and changes in sensor number and placement . This method of ERP analysis can be used to compare responses from multiple stimuli , task conditions , and subject states . CD56 + putative natural killer cell lymphomas : production of cytolytic effectors and related proteins mediating tumor cell apoptosis ? Apoptosis is a regulated form of cell death that may be triggered by natural killer ( NK ) or cytotoxic T cells , which effect target cell lysis by cytolytic effector and related proteins through complex intracellular signals . This study was aimed to investigate whether there is selective expression of these cytolytic markers in the putative NK - cell lymphomas and whether there is correlation with zonal tumor cell death in these tumors . Expression of the cytolytic effectors perforin , granzyme B9 , and the granule membrane protein TIA1 were examined in 24 putative NK - cell lymphomas , 18 postthymic T - cell lymphomas ( one case CD8 + CD56 + and three anaplastic large cell lymphomas ( ALCL ) , three T - lymphoblastic lymphomas , and 20 B - cell lymphomas . Nineteen ( 79 % ) putative NK - cell lymphomas expressed perforin , and all 24 cases expressed granzyme B9 and TIA1 . The only CD8 + CD56 + postthymic T - cell lymphoma also expressed all three cytolytic markers , two CD8 - ALCL expressed TIA1 ; other postthymic T - cell , T - lymphoblastic , and B - cell lymphomas were consistently negative . There was strong correlation between percentage perforin - positive cells and zonal tumor cell death . Angioinvasion , in contrast , was present only in a proportion ( 37 % ) of these lymphomas despite the frequent presence of zonal tumor cell death ( 71 % ) . We propose that cytolytic effector and related proteins produced by putative NK and some CD8 + CD56 + postthymic T - cell lymphomas , probably in conjunction with other mechanisms , may effect massive tumor cell apoptosis . The frequent expression of cytolytic effector markers in the CD2 + surface CD3 - CD56 + putative NK - cell lymphomas lends further support to their probable NK cell origin . Calretinin . A selective marker of normal and neoplastic mesothelial cells in serous effusions . OBJECTIVE : To document that a polyclonal antiserum to calretinin , a 29 - kd calcium - binding protein , consistently decorates normal and tumor mesothelial cells in cytologic preparations . STUDY DESIGN : Thirty - three archival cytologic specimens from eight patients with histologically confirmed malignant mesothelioma and 13 from patients with metastatic serous effusions were destained and then immunostained with anticalretinin antiserum . For investigation of cell suspensions , four pleural fluids were incubated with anticalretinin antiserum . After cytocentrifugation the specimens were stained in accordance with the alkaline phosphatase anti - alkaline phosphatase ( APAAP ) method . For electron microscopic examination the cell suspensions were then incubated with gold - labeled antirabbit antibody . RESULTS : The diagnostic sensitivity of this new immunocytochemical approach reached 100 % for the eight malignant mesotheliomas investigated . Only 3 of the 13 adenocarcinomas metastatic to the serous membranes included in this study were weakly reactive , accounting for 81 % specificity . Binding of anticalretinin antiserum to living mesothelial cells was consistently documented in all four cases investigated . CONCLUSION : Calretinin is a very useful marker for positive identification of normal and tumor mesothelial cells in serous effusions . [ Extra - anatomic bypass from the ascending aorta to the supraceliac abdominal aorta - - surgical option applied to reoperation for aortic coarctation or interruption ] . The optimal approach for reoperation following repair of aortic coarctation ( CoA ) or interruption ( IAA ) remains controversial . Four patients underwent extra - anatomic bypass for restenosis after repair of CoA or IAA . The age ranged from 4 to 12 years . The initial repairs for two CoA , one type A - IAA , and one type B - IAA consisted of two grafting , one subclavian arterial turning - down aortoplasty , and one subclavian flap aortoplasty . All of them underwent during infancy . Preoperative right arm systolic pressure ranged from 140 to 190 mmHg ar rest . Through a midline sternotomy and an upper laparotmy incision , an extra - anatomic bypass from the ascending aorta to the supraceliac abdominal aorta was employed using a 12 to 18 mm tube graft . All patients survived surgeries , and their hypertension markedly improved . Our experience confirms safety and effectiveness of this option in selected young patients with re - stenosis of following repair of CoA or IAA . Effect of a mutation in the anticodon of human mitochondrial tRNAPro on its post - transcriptional modification pattern . Although the gene sequences of all 22 tRNAs encoded in the human mitochondrial genome are known , little information exists about their sequences at the RNA level . This becomes a crucial limitation when searching for a molecular understanding of the growing number of maternally inherited human diseases correlated with point mutations in tRNA genes . Here we describe the sequence of human mt - tRNAPropurified from placenta . It shows absence of editing events in this tRNA and highlights the presence of eight post - transcriptional modifications . These include T54 , never found so far in an animal mt - tRNA , and m1G37 , a modification known to have fundamental functional properties in a number of canonical tRNAs . Occurrence of m1G37 was further investigated in an analysis of the substrate properties of in vitro transcripts of human mt - tRNAProtowards pure Escherichia coli methylguanosine transferase . This enzyme properly methylates G37 in mt - tRNA and is sensitive to the presence of a second G at position 36 , neighboring the target nucleotide for methylation . Since mutation of nt 36 was shown to be correlated with myopathy , the potential consequences of non - modification or under - modification of mt - tRNA nucleotides in expression of the particular myopathy and of mitochondrial diseases in general are discussed . Prognostic value of HLA - DR expression and dendritic cell infiltration in gastric cancer . We attempted to correlate the expression of human leukocyte antigen DR ( HLA - DR ) and tumor infiltration by S - 100 - protein - positive dendritic cells with clinicopathologic features in 165 patients with gastric cancer . The expression of HLA - DR was correlated with the histologic type . Infiltration of dendritic cells correlated negatively with distant lymph node metastases , clinical stage , and peritoneal invasion . There was no correlation between the expression of HLA - DR and infiltration by dendritic cells . In patients with resectable gastric cancer , the grade of infiltrating dendritic cells may be a suitable predictor of prognosis . Integrin alphavbeta3 requirement for sustained mitogen - activated protein kinase activity during angiogenesis . Angiogenesis depends on growth factors and vascular cell adhesion events . Integrins and growth factors are capable of activating the ras / MAP kinase pathway in vitro , yet how these signals influence endothelial cells during angiogenesis is unknown . Upon initiation of angiogenesis with basic fibroblast growth factor ( bFGF ) on the chick chorioallantoic membrane ( CAM ) , endothelial cell mitogen - activated protein ( MAP ) kinase ( ERK ) activity was detected as early as 5 min yet was sustained for at least 20 h . The initial wave of ERK activity ( 5 - 120 min ) was refractory to integrin antagonists , whereas the sustained activity ( 4 - 20 h ) depended on integrin alphavbeta3 , but not beta1 integrins . Inhibition of MAP kinase kinase ( MEK ) during this sustained alphavbeta3 - dependent ERK signal blocked the formation of new blood vessels while not influencing preexisting blood vessels on the CAM . Inhibition of MEK also blocked growth factor induced migration but not adhesion of endothelial cells in vitro . Therefore , angiogenesis depends on sustained ERK activity regulated by the ligation state of both a growth factor receptor and integrin alphavbeta3 . Conservative treatment of endometriosis : the effects of limited surgery and hormonal pseudopregnancy . This study compares the effects of limited surgery or hormonal pseudopregnancy , or a combination of these two , upon fertility and the need for subsequent surgery with respect to the extent of the disease at the time of initial diagnosis in patients with endometriosis externa . Of the 61 patients who desired to enhance or preserve reproductive capacity , 20 patients became pregnant , for a pregnancy rate of 33 % . The pregnancy rate in all categories , that is , those patients treated with pseudopregnancy , conservative surgery , and combined pseudopregnancy and surgery , was found to be in direct relationship to the initial extent of disease . In such patients , conservative surgery alone seemed to give the best results in the achievement of pregnancy . There seemed to be little difference between pseudopregnancy alone and conservative surgery in regard to the need for subsequent surgery after initial therapy , although there seemed to be a significantly greater chance for the need for subsequent surgery in patients receiving a combination of the two forms of therapy . The need for subsequent surgery after initial therapy in 80 patients increased in direct relationship to the initial extent of disease present , despite the form of therapy used . Fifty - nine other patients with endometriosis , who did not desire to preserve fertility and presented for relief of other symptoms , underwent initial " radical " therapy . Forty - six patients underwent complete operation , including removal of uterus , tubes and ovaries , and none required subsequent reoperation . Of the 13 remaining patients , who underwent incomplete surgical removal , leaving one or both ovaries in situ , 11 required subsequent reoperation for recurrent pelvic endometriosis . Clozapine - induced agranulocytosis and thrombopenia in a patient with dopaminergic psychosis . In patients with Parkinson ' disease and dopaminergic psychosis , clozapine treatment is recommended as the drug is free from extrapyramidal side effects and does not worsen motor symptoms of the underlying disease . The use of clozapine , however , is limited due to its hematotoxic side effects . For treatment of clozapine - induced agranulocytosis , granulocyte colony - stimulating factors ( G - CSF ) are recommended . We report the case of a 72 - years - old male patient with clozapine - induced agranulocytosis and thrombopenia . Neutropenia was successfully treated with G - CSF , but thrombopenia persisted and resolved spontaneously after 14 days . Bone marrow toxicity of clozapine is not restricted to white cell maturation , but may also impair thrombocytopoesis . Basic fibroblast growth factor : a missing link between collagen VII , increased collagenase , and squamous cell carcinoma in recessive dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa . BACKGROUND : Patients with recessive dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa ( RDEB ) have deficiencies of collagen type VII and have elevated levels of fibroblast collagenase , and a greatly increased risk of cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma . Patients with other genetic blistering disorders do not have elevated collagenase or an increased risk of squamous cell carcinoma , despite chronic wounding . The connection between collagen type VII deficiency , increased collagenase , and squamous cell carcinoma is not understood . MATERIALS AND METHODS : Urine from 81 patients with RDEB ( 39 patients ) , junctional epidermolysis bullosa ( JEB ; 12 patients ) , and epidermolysis bullosa simplex ( EBS ; 30 patients ) , as well as unaffected family members of RDEB patients ( 33 patients ) , was tested for the presence of basic fibroblast growth factor ( bFGF ) using a sensitive radioimmunoassay . These patients included many who were enrolled in the Epidermolysis Bullosa Registry and others who were referred by their physicians . RESULTS : Fifty - one percent of patients with RDEB had elevated levels ( greater than 5000 pg / g ) of urinary bFGF . In contrast , none of the patients with JEB had elevated levels of bFGF . Twenty - one percent of clinically unaffected family members had elevated levels of bFGF , and 13 % of patients with EBS had elevated levels of bFGF . The frequency of elevated bFGF values among all groups was statistically significant ( p = 0 . 002 ) , and the levels of bFGF in RDEB patients were significantly elevated compared with those of other groups ( p less than 0 . 05 ) . CONCLUSIONS : We have found that patients with RDEB have elevated levels of bFGF , which may contribute to increased fibroblast collagenase and the development of squamous cell carcinoma . These results suggest a novel treatment for RDEB , namely , angiogenesis inhibitors , which may antagonize the effects of bFGF in this disorder . There are currently no other means of treatment for this disorder , which has a high morbidity and mortality rate . Multiple phosphotyrosine phosphatase mRNAs are expressed in the human lung fibroblast cell line WI - 38 . Protein tyrosine phosphatases are important components of signal transduction pathways . The authors have used reverse transcription / polymerase chain reactions to accomplish a comprehensive examination of the RNA expression for 58 distinct mammalian protein tyrosine and dual specificity phosphatase ( PTPase ) and PTPase - like genes in the normal human diploid fibroblast cell line WI - 38 . Thirty - seven of these PTPase genes express easily measurable RNA , and four simultaneously express the RNA for two or more isoforms . Messages for an additional eight PTPase genes are detectable at low levels . Only 14 known PTPase genes do not express measurable RNA under our conditions . For purposes of comparison , the authors also assessed the PTPases expressed in the WI - 38 cell line using highly degenerate primers to conserved motifs found in the classical tyrosine - specific PTPases . Only eight of the 22 classic tyrosine - specific PTPases detected using the specific primers were detected using these degenerate primers . Our panel of specific PTPase primers should be very useful for semiquantitatively assessing the repertoire of PTPases expressed by cells . Epstein - Barr virus - associated nonsmall cell lung carcinoma : undifferentiated " lymphoepithelioma - like " carcinoma as a distinct entity with better prognosis . BACKGROUND : Epstein - Barr virus ( EBV ) infection in nonsmall cell lung carcinoma ( NSCLC ) has been demonstrated in some ethnic groups . The pathobiology and the role of EBV and oncoprotein expression in these tumors have not been studied extensively . In this study , the authors investigated EBV - encoded RNA - 1 ( EBER1 ) transcripts by in situ hybridization and the expression of latent membrane protein - 1 ( LMP - 1 ) and bcl - 2 protein by immunohistochemistry in NSCLC patients from Taiwan , where nasopharyngeal carcinoma is endemic . METHODS : A total of 127 cases of NSCLC ( 43 cases of squamous cell carcinoma [ SCC ] , 67 cases of adenocarcinoma [ AD ] , 12 cases of large cell carcinoma [ LCC ] , and 5 cases of lymphoepithelioma - like carcinoma [ LE ] ) were included . A sensitive polymerase chain reaction - derived , digoxigenin - labeled DNA probe for in situ detection of EBER1 transcripts was performed for the detection of EBV . Immunohistochemistry using the avidin - biotin - immunoperoxidase method was also performed to evaluate the expression of bcl - 2 and LMP - 1 . RESULTS : EBER1 was detected in 11 of the 127 NSCLC cases ( 8 . 7 % ; 6 SCC cases and 5 LE cases ) . All 5 LE cases were EBV - positive , whereas only 6 of the 43 SCC cases ( 14 % ) , 0 of 67 AD cases , and 12 LCC cases were EBV - positive ( P < 0 . 05 ) . All five LE cases showed diffuse , strong , positive staining of tumor cells ; five of the six SCC cases showed diffuse but weak staining . Among the nontumor epithelial cells , there was no EBER1 staining of any of the 11 EBER1 - positive cases . The mean age of the LE patients was 10 years younger than that of the patients with other histological types . All 5 LE patients were nonsmokers , whereas 3 of the 6 patients with EBER1 - positive SCC ( 50 % ) were smokers . EBER1 expression did not correlate with the 2 - year survival rate of overall cases , but all 5 LE patients were alive without clinical evidence of disease at last follow - up . Gender , lymph node or distant metastasis , and clinical stage were not found to have any correlation with EBER1 expression ( P > 0 . 05 ) . All LE cases had bcl - 2 oncoprotein expression ( 100 % ) . This frequency was significantly different from other histologic types ( P < 0 . 05 ) . The LMP - 1 detection rate was low and demonstrated no correlation with bcl - 2 expression . CONCLUSIONS : In this study , the authors found that the primary LE of the lung is associated with young age , a history of not smoking , high bcl - 2 immunoreactivity , and better survival rate . These characteristics demonstrate that EBV - associated LE of the lung is a unique entity . The findings of the current study suggest that EBV infection may play a different role in the tumorigenesis of primary LE of the lung than it does in other EBER1 - positive NSCLCs . Prophylactic thyroidectomy in MEN IIA : does the calcitonin level correlate with tumor spread ? BACKGROUND : The fate of patients with multiple endocrine neoplasia of type II A ( MEN II A ) is determined by medullary thyroid carcinoma , which occurs in all cases . This has led to the therapeutic concept of prophylactic thyroidectomy in affected family members with the goal of removing the thyroid before the manifestation of carcinoma . We investigated a prophylactically thyroidectomized MEN II A population to determine whether the highly specific and sensitive tumor marker calcitonin correlates with tumor spread . PATIENTS AND METHODS : Fifteen patients with MEN II A ( aged 4 - 24 years ) who had undergone prophylactic thyroidectomy since 1990 were included in the study . Baseline and pentagastrin - stimulated calcitonin levels were preoperatively determined in all cases . The indication for surgery was established on the basis of pathologic calcitonin levels in the first seven patients and on the basis of detected RET proto - oncogene mutation in the other eight patients . Bilateral central lymphadenectomy was performed in all patients in addition to thyroidectomy . RESULTS : Histology demonstrated C - cell hyperplasia in five patients ( aged 4 - 13 years ) , unilateral medullary microcarcinoma in six ( aged 9 - 17 years ) and a bilateral medullary microcarcinoma in three cases ( aged 17 - 24 years ) . One 9 - year - old boy with bilateral microcarcinoma already had a lymph node metastasis . The mean baseline calcitonin level correlated with the histologic findings ( r = 0 . 71 , P = 0 . 003 ) but there was no correlation between pentagastrin - stimulated calcitonin levels and histology ( r = 0 . 21 , P = 0 . 47 ) . CONCLUSION : In MEN II A patients undergoing prophylactic thyroidectomy , baseline but not stimulated calcitonin levels already correlate with the histologic tumor stage at the stage of clinically occult C - cell hyperplasia or medullary microcarcinoma . However , biochemical screening cannot reliably discriminate the transition from C - cell hyperplasia to invasive microcarcinoma . Individuals with MEN IIA should therefore undergo early prophylactic thyroidectomy once the diagnosis is confirmed by molecular genetic testing . Induction of Ets - 1 in endothelial cells during reendothelialization after denuding injury . Ets - 1 , a transcription factor , is induced in endothelial cells ( ECs ) during angiogenesis . Here , we investigated the expression of Ets - 1 during reendothelialization . When a confluent monolayer of human umbilical vein endothelial cell line , ECV304 , was denuded , ECV304 at the wound edge expressed Ets - 1 . An immunohistochemical analysis revealed that Ets - 1 accumulated in migrating cells at the wound edge and returned to basal level when reendothelialization was accomplished . This induction of Ets - 1 could be reproduced in in vivo denudation of rat aortic endothelium by a balloon catheter . The induction of Ets - 1 in ECs after denudation was regulated transcriptionally , and humeral factors released from injured ECs might not be responsible . Mitogen - activated protein kinase ( MAPK ) activities were investigated to explore the mechanism of this induction . Although extracellular signal - regulated protein kinase 1 / 2 ( ERK1 / 2 ) , c - Jun N - terminal kinase 1 ( JNK1 ) , and p38 were activated after denudation , the activation of ERK1 and p38 was more rapid and prominent . PD98059 , a specific MAPK / ERK kinase ( MEK ) 1 inhibitor , did not affect the induction of ets - 1 mRNA , whereas SB203580 , a specific p38 inhibitor , almost completely abrogated its induction . These results indicate that Ets - 1 is induced in ECs after denudation through activation of p38 . This induction of Ets - 1 may be relevant for reendothelialization by regulating the expression of certain genes . SV40 Tag transformation of the normal invasive trophoblast results in a premalignant phenotype . I . Mechanisms responsible for hyperinvasiveness and resistance to anti - invasive action of TGFbeta . Invasion of the uterus by first trimester human placental extravillous trophoblast ( EVT ) cells depends on mechanisms shared by malignant cells . However , unlike tumor invasion , trophoblast invasion of the uterus is stringently controlled in situ by local molecules such as transforming growth factor ( TGF ) beta . Since EVT cells possess active invasion - associated genes but are nontumorigenic , our objective was to induce premalignant and then malignant phenotype into a normal EVT cell line in order to identify the molecular basis of tumor progression . Simian virus 40 large T antigen ( SV40 Tag ) was introduced into a normal human first trimester invasive EVT cell line , HTR8 , established in our laboratory . Since the HTR8 line has a limited in vitro lifespan of 12 - 15 passages , SV40 Tag - transformed cells were selected on the basis of extended lifespan . A long - lived line , RSVT - 2 , was produced and an immortalized subclone , RSVT2 / C , was further derived under a forced crisis regimen . We examined transformation - induced alterations in proliferative and invasive abilities , responses to the invasion and proliferation - regulating growth factor TGFbeta and changes in gene expression for invasion - associated enzymes or enzyme inhibitors . RSVT - 2 and RSVT2 / C cell lines were hyperproliferative and hyperinvasive when compared with the parental HTR8 cell line . They were also variably resistant to the anti - proliferative and anti - invasive signals from TGFbeta . Since both cell lines remained non - tumorigenic in nude mice , these properties indicate that they attained a premalignant phenotype . Both cell lines showed reduced expression of tissue inhibitor of metalloproteases ( TIMP ) - 1 , while TIMP - 2 and plasminogen activator inhibitor ( PAI ) - I expression was was also reduced in RSVT2 / C cells , thus contributing to their hyperinvasiveness . Their resistance to the anti - invasive action of TGFbeta was explained by the failure of TGFbeta to upregulate TIMPs and PAI - I , in contrast to the TGFbeta - induced upregulation noted in parental HTR8 cells . Antisocial patients : a comparison of those with and those without childhood conduct disorder . The purpose of this study was to compare persons with antisocial personality disorder ( ASP ) with those who meet the adult criteria for ASP but fail to meet the criteria for childhood conduct disorder . Sociodemographic data , medical history , and psychiatric symptoms exhibited during a recent hospital admission were compared in the two groups by chart review . The two groups were virtually indistinguishable , except that patients without childhood conduct disorder were less likely to smoke or consume alcohol , were less likely to have spent time in a training school / boot camp as a child or adolescent , were less likely to have been admitted for a recent suicide attempt , and were less likely to have conned others . We conclude that persons meeting the adult criteria for ASP but not the childhood conduct disorder criteria essentially suffer the same disorder as those who meet full ASP criteria but are less severely affected . Acylase I - catalyzed deacetylation of N - acetyl - L - cysteine and S - alkyl - N - acetyl - L - cysteines . The aminoacylase that catalyzes the hydrolysis of N - acetyl - L - cysteine ( NAC ) was identified as acylase I after purification by column chromatography and electrophoretic analysis . Rat kidney cytosol was fractionated by ammonium sulfate precipitation , and the proteins were separated by ion - exchange column chromatography , gel - filtration column chromatography , and hydrophobic interaction column chromatography . Acylase activity with NAC and N - acetyl - L - methionine ( NAM ) , a known substrate for acylase I , as substrates coeluted during all chromatographic steps . Sodium dodecyl sulfate - polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis showed that the protein was purified to near homogeneity and had a subunit Mr of 43 000 , which is identical with the Mr of acylase I from porcine kidney and bovine liver . n - Butylmalonic acid was a slow - binding inhibitor of acylase I and inhibited the deacetylation of NAC with a Ki of 192 + / - 27 microM . These results show that acylase I catalyzes the deacetylation of NAC . The acylase I - catalyzed deacetylation of a range of S - alkyl - N - acetyl - L - cysteines , their carbon and oxygen analogues , and the selenium analogue of NAM was also studied with porcine kidney acylase I . The specific activity of the acylase I - catalyzed deacetylation of these substrates was related to their calculated molar volumes and log P values . The S - alkyl - N - acetyl - L - cysteines with short ( C0 - C3 ) and unbranched S - alkyl substituents were good acylase I substrates , whereas the S - alkyl - N - acetyl - L - cysteines with long ( > C3 ) and branched S - alkyl substituents were poLr acylase I substrates . The carbon and oxygen analogues of S - methyl - N - acetyl - L - cysteine and the carbon analogue of S - ethyl - N - acetyl - L - cysteine were poor acylase I substrates , whereas the selenium analogue of NAM was a good acylase I substrate . Expression of two type II - like tumor hexokinase RNA transcripts in cancer cell lines . To maintain an elevated glycolytic rate , cancerous or proliferating cells alter the expression pattern of rate limiting glycolytic enzymes . Since glucose phosphorylation is the first step in glycolysis , hexokinase ( HK ) , the first rate limiting glycolytic enzyme , can play a key regulatory role in this process . A low - Km , mitochondrial type II - like tumor HK is described as the predominant form in hepatomas . However , recent identification of a high - Km glucose phosphorylating activity in a range of cancer cells prompted us to characterize glucose phosphorylating enzymes of cancer cells at the molecular level . Highly sensitive reverse - transcription polymerase chain reaction identifies an induction and overexpression of a type II - like tumor HK RNA in a range of cancer cell lines irrespective of tissue origin . In addition , we report here the identification of two RNA transcripts of type II - like tumor HK of approximately 5 . 5 and approximately 4 . 0 kb in these cancer cells lines , including muscle - derived L6 myoblast cells . Interestingly , under normal conditions muscle cells express only a approximately 5 . 5 - kb type II HK RNA transcript . A significant amount of type I HK RNA was also found expressed in cancer cell lines . RNA encoding glucokinase ( GK ) , the high - Km HK isozyme , was found only in cancer cells originating from liver and pancreas , which express GK under normal conditions . Homeobox genes in hematopoiesis and leukemogenesis . Homeobox genes have a strikingly conserved 61 - amino acid sequence , encoding DNA - binding domain . Some homeobox genes , located in four clusters are designated HOX A through D , while others are known as divergent homeobox genes . Many researchers have demonstrated that hematopoietic cells express many homeobox genes . Induced over - and under - expression of these genes has been used to demonstrate their affect on some aspects of hematopoiesis and leukemogenesis . Recently , knock - out mice of homeobox genes by targeted disruption have also been used to examine their hematological effect . There are examples of the aberrant expression of a homeobox gene causing leukemias in humans . In pre - B acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( ALL ) with t ( 1 ; 19 ) translocation , a fusion protein is created between E2A and a homeobox gene PBX . In T - cell ALL with t ( 10 ; 14 ) translocation , the HOX 11 gene is deregulated . In acute myeloid leukemia ( AML ) with t ( 7 ; 11 ) translocation , the HOX A9 gene is rearranged . In this review article , many functions of homeobox genes both at the early stem cell level as well as at the later stages of hematopoietic differentiation , and the leukemogenic effect of altered homeobox genes are discussed . The myoadipose flap : a new composite . A prefabricated composite fat flap consisting of muscle woven into an anatomically distinct fat pad was studied in a rabbit model . In 17 rabbits , a 2 - cm strip of latissimus dorsi was woven into the parascapular fat pad on one side , with the contralateral fat pad serving as a control . At 3 weeks , the endogenous blood supply of both the control and the experimental fat pads was isolated and ligated , and the composite fat / muscle flap was transferred to the chest wall . At 6 weeks , animals were killed , and flaps were analyzed for length , width , and weight ; perfused with fluorescein or lead oxide ; and examined histologically . Significant differences were found between the control and experimental fat pads with regard to weight and length . Experimental flaps were found to be perfused fully with fluorescein and lead oxide ; control fat pads were found not to be perfused . The lead oxide group revealed extensive growth of blood vessels from the latissimus graft into the experimental fat pad . No vessels were visualized in the controls . Finally , sections of the control and experimental flaps were analyzed histologically . A preponderance of viable fat , with evidence of neovascularization , was found in experimental flaps , compared with the necrotic fat that characterized the controls . We conclude that prefabrication of a fat flap is possible and may have extensive application in various areas of plastic surgery . Store - operated calcium entry promotes shape change in pulmonary endothelial cells expressing Trp1 . Activation of Ca2 + entry is known to produce endothelial cell shape change , leading to increased permeability , leukocyte migration , and initiation of angiogenesis in conduit - vessel endothelial cells . The mode of Ca2 + entry regulating cell shape is unknown . We hypothesized that activation of store - operated Ca2 + channels ( SOCs ) is sufficient to promote cell shape change necessary for these processes . SOC activation in rat pulmonary arterial endothelial cells increased free cytosolic Ca2 + that was dependent on a membrane current having a net inward component of 5 . 45 + / - 0 . 90 pA / pF at - 80 mV . Changes in endothelial cell shape accompanied SOC activation and were dependent on Ca2 + entry - induced reconfiguration of peripheral ( cortical ) filamentous actin ( F - actin ) . Because the identity of pulmonary endothelial SOCs is unknown , but mammalian homologues of the Drosophila melanogaster transient receptor potential ( trp ) gene have been proposed to form Ca2 + entry channels in nonexcitable cells , we performed RT - PCR using Trp oligonucleotide primers in both rat and human pulmonary arterial endothelial cells . Both cell types were found to express Trp1 , but neither expressed Trp3 nor Trp6 . Our study indicates that 1 ) Ca2 + entry in pulmonary endothelial cells through SOCs produces cell shape change that is dependent on site - specific rearrangement of the microfilamentous cytoskeleton and 2 ) Trp1 may be a component of pulmonary endothelial SOCs . Brainstem auditory - evoked potential evaluation in children with meningitis . Brainstem auditory - evoked potential ( BAEP ) was performed on 101 children with meningitis to assess the incidence of hearing impairment . Fifty - two ( 51 . 5 % ) children had bacterial meningitis , six ( 5 . 9 % ) had viral meningitis , and 43 ( 42 . 6 % ) had aseptic meningitis . Fifty - one ( 50 . 5 % ) patients were assessed before discharge and 50 ( 49 . 5 % ) 9 days to 17 months later ( mean = 4 months ) . BAEP impairment was found in 28 ( 27 . 7 % ) of 101 patients ; 24 had sensorineural and four had conductive type of hearing loss , and 17 ( 60 . 7 % ) had unilateral and 11 ( 39 . 3 % ) had bilateral impairment . Hearing threshold was elevated in 22 ( 21 . 8 % ) patients , and the other six had increased latency and interpeak latencies with normal threshold . Frequency of BAEP impairment or hearing loss associated with bacterial meningitis was 34 . 6 % and 30 . 8 % , respectively ; frequency associated with aseptic meningitis was 20 . 9 % and 13 . 9 % , respectively . One child with viral meningitis ( coxsackie virus ) had mild BAEP impairment . Most of the BAEP impairment in the bacterial meningitis group was associated with H . influenzae . Prospective BAEP study was performed in 20 patients randomly at 0 . 3 to 18 months to assess hearing status after antibiotic treatment , 10 with normal and 10 with abnormal BAEP . All the initially normal BAEP patients remained normal . Of the 10 patients with abnormal BAEP results initially , four returned to normal , two improved , three remained unchanged , and one deteriorated . The incidence of hearing loss after bacterial and aseptic meningitis is high . BAEP is useful to screen for possible hearing loss in children with meningitis , and follow - up BAEP is necessary for those patients with initially abnormal BAEP . Hemispheric control of motor function : a whole brain echo planar fMRI study . The aim of this study was to explore whether recruitment of the ipsilateral motor cortex during non - dominant motor movement reflects left hemispheric control of motor function or simply the greater complexity or unfamiliarity of the motor task . BOLD fMRI was performed in normal right - handers during two motor tasks : ( 1 ) sequential finger movements ( SM task ) with the right or left hand ; and ( 2 ) random finger movements ( RM task ) with the right hand . In all subjects , activation was predominantly in the contralateral motor areas ( primary sensorimotor , lateral premotor , parietal and supplementary motor regions ) and ipsilateral cerebellum . While the ipsilateral motor areas were also activated , single subject analysis revealed these areas to be more extensive and to be seen in more subjects during the non - dominant hand SM task and dominant hand RM task than during the more familiar dominant hand SM task . Similarly , group analysis also revealed ipsilateral activation in the primary sensorimotor and lateral premotor areas , but only during the non - dominant SM task and the dominant hand RM task . Non - dominant hand movements , perhaps because they are less ' automatic ' , appear to require more cortical activity similar to complex tasks with the dominant hand , and result in greater recruitment of ipsilateral cortical motor areas and striatum . The study also illustrates how potentially meaningful subtleties seen on individual maps may be obscured with group averaging approaches . [ The assessment of flow velocity in carotid and intracranial arteries in three different age groups ] . In this report we assess the systolic maximal flow velocity in carotid and intracranial arteries in 191 subjects with no history of cerebral vascular disease in 3 age groups : 20 - 40 years ( 1 group ) , 41 - 60 years ( 2 group ) , and above 60 years ( 3 group ) . The subjects were assessed using Sonomed Transcranial Doppler Spectrograph according to generally accepted principles . The purpose of the study was to establish the mean value of maximal flow velocity in each particular artery in three age groups , and to observe the changes in this parameter with age . The results were analyzed using statistical methods and a significant decrease in blood flow , Vmax , was found in all investigated arteries . A mean decrease of 8 . 02 % in flow velocity Vmax was found , when comparing groups 2 and 1 , and difference 15 . 99 % comparing 3 and 1 . Lack of developmental and reproductive toxicity of 2 , 3 , 3 ' , 4 , 4 ' - pentachlorobiphenyl ( PCB 105 ) in ring - necked pheasants . Mono - ortho PCBs are global contaminants of wildlife with the potential to produce toxicity by an aryl hydrocarbon receptor ( AhR ) - mediated mechanism . To determine the potency of 2 , 3 , 3 ' , 4 , 4 ' - pentachlorobiphenyl ( PCB 105 ) for producing reproductive and developmental toxicity , adult ring - necked pheasant hens ( Phasianus colchicus ) were orally dosed with 0 , 0 . 06 , 0 . 6 , or 6 mg PCB 105 / kg hen / week for 10 weeks to achieve cumulative doses of 0 , 0 . 6 , 6 , or 60 mg PCB 105 / kg hen after which hens were bred with untreated roosters once per week for 8 weeks . Except at week 6 of the egg - laying period when cumulative egg production in the 6 mg PCB 105 / kg hen group was greater than controls , fertilized egg production was not significantly different between treatment groups . Embryo mortality and chick mortality were not significantly different between treatment groups . Total body and heart weights of all chicks 1 day posthatch ( dph ) were not different between groups , however , liver weights of chicks from the 60 mg / kg treatment group were greater than controls at 1 dph . The first chick to hatch from each hen was reared to 21 dph and among these birds , the total body , liver , and heart weights were not different between groups . There were no dose - related malformations of the beak or limbs , and no signs of subcutaneous edema , ascites , or pericardial edema in chicks at 1 or 21 dph . Hepatic microsomal monooxygenase activities [ ethoxyresorufin - O - dealkylase ( EROD ) , benzyloxyresorufin - O - dealkylase ( BROD ) , and methyloxyresorufin - O - dealkylase ( MROD ) ] were significantly elevated in chicks at 1 dph from hens given a cumulative PCB 105 dose of 6 mg / kg and in chicks at 21 dph from hens given a cumulative PCB dose of 60 mg / kg . These results indicate that a cumulative PCB 105 dose up to 60 mg / kg hen does not decrease the production of fertilized eggs or increase embryo or chick mortality in ring - necked pheasants , but does increase chick hepatic monooxygenase activity . Glucose and lactate metabolism in C6 glioma cells : evidence for the preferential utilization of lactate for cell oxidative metabolism . 13C and 1H nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy ( NMR ) was used to investigate the metabolism of L - lactate and D - glucose in C6 glioma cells . The 13C enrichment of cell metabolites was examined after a 4 - h incubation in media containing 5 . 5 mM glucose and 11 mM lactate , each metabolite being alternatively labelled with either [ 1 - 13C ] D - glucose or [ 3 - 13C ] L - lactate . The results indicated that exogenous lactate was the major substrate for oxidative metabolism . They were consistent with the concept of the existence of 2 pools of both lactate and pyruvate , of which 1 pool was closely connected with exogenous lactate and oxidative metabolism , and the other pool was closely related to glycolysis and disconnected from oxidative metabolism . The molecular basis of this behaviour could be related to different locations for the lactate dehydrogenase isoenzymes , as suggested by their immunohistochemical labelling . Detection of total assist and sucking points based on the pulsatility of a continuous flow artificial heart : in vivo evaluation . Our novel control strategy for a continuous flow artificial heart by detecting the total assist and sucking points based on pump pulsatility was evaluated in acute animal experiments using beagle dogs and our mixed flow pump . The pump was installed as a left ventricular ( LV ) bypass through a left thoracotomy . To change LV contractility , the left coronary arteries were occluded for 30 min , followed by a 120 min reperfusion . To change LV end diastolic pressure ( LVEDP ) , dextran solution was rapidly infused . To estimate the pump pulsatility without any specific sensor , we calculated the index of current amplitude ( ICA ) , which was obtained from the amplitude of the motor current waveform divided by the simultaneous mean value . To investigate the basic characteristics of the ICA , the pump speed was changed temporarily from 2 , 300 rpm to 5 , 000 rpm . In 92 % of all measurements , the ICA plotted against the pump speed had a peak point ( t - point ) that corresponded highly with the turning point from partial to total assistance . The ICA also had a trough ( s - point ) that corresponded with the beginning of severe sucking in most cases . Only preload significantly influenced pump flow rate at the t - point from among preload ( LVEDP ) , afterload ( SAoP ) , and contractility ( max LV dP / dt ) , by which we can simulate Starling ' s law of the natural heart . We concluded that a continuous flow artificial heart could be well controlled by detecting the t - point and s - point . Tumors of the retinal pigment epithelium metastasize to inguinal lymph nodes and spleen in tyrosinase - related protein 1 / SV40 T antigen transgenic mice . The pigment epithelium of the retina ( RPE ) is derived from the optic cup and is essential for function and development of the eye . We produced a transgenic mouse line that expresses simian virus ( SV40 ) transforming sequences under control of the 1 . 4 kb tyrosinase - related protein 1 ( TRP - 1 ) promoter , targeting expression of T antigen ( Tag ) to the RPE . In transgenic embryos , RPE cells proliferated in the anterior part of the eye and near the optic nerve . This resulted in formation of tumors , which were pigmented and of epithelial origin . In 3 months - old mice , pigmented cells were detected in spleen and inguinal lymph nodes . In spleen , tyrosinase , TRP - 1 and SV40 Tag were expressed and tyrosinase was enzymatically active . Pigmented regions were positive for an epithelial marker , cytokeratin . Cell lines were established from tumor and metastases and kept in culture for more than 2 months . These were pigmented , and maintained expression of tyrosinase , TRP - 1 , cytokeratin and SV40 Tag . This demonstrates that RPE tumor cells metastasize to lymph node and spleen . In conclusion , the metastasis from TRP - 1 / Tag RPE tumors towards spleen and lymph nodes serves as potential tool to investigate biology and metastasis of tumors derived from the pigment epithelium . Glucagon induces suppression of ATP - sensitive K + channel activity through a Ca2 + / calmodulin - dependent pathway in mouse pancreatic beta - cells . Glucagon is known to increase intracellular cAMP levels and enhance glucose - induced electrical activity and insulin secretion in pancreatic beta - cell perfused with Krebs - Ringer bicarbonate solution . The present experiments were aimed at evaluation of the hypothesis that changes in beta - cells ATP - sensitive K + ( K ( ATP ) ) channel activity are involved in the glucagon - induced enhancement of electrical activity . Channel activity was recorded using the cell - attached configuration of the patch - clamp technique . Addition of glucagon ( 2 . 9 x 10 ( - 7 ) m ) in the presence of 11 . 1 mm glucose caused closure of K ( ATP ) channels followed by an increase in the frequency of biphasic current transients ( action currents ) due to action potential generation in the cell . Three calmodulin - antagonists ( W - 7 , chlorpromazine , and trifluoperazine ) restored with similar efficacy K ( ATP ) channel activity in cells being exposed to glucagon . At 2 . 8 mm glucose , glucagon did not affect K ( ATP ) channel activity until Ca2 + was released from Nitr - 5 by flash photolysis , at which point channel activity was transiently suppressed . Similar effects were seen when db - cAMP was used instead of glucagon . These results support the view that glucagon and other cAMP - generating agonists enhance glucose - induced beta - cell electrical activity through a Ca2 + / calmodulin dependent - closure of K ( ATP ) channels . Requirement of estrogen receptor expression and function for [ 12Val ] K - Ras - mediated NIH3T3 cell transformation . We investigated the biological significance of estrogen receptors ( ERs ) in NIH3T3 cell transformation by the [ 12Val ] K - Ras mutant . This mutant enhanced the steady - level and transcriptional activity of ER . Coexpression of the progesterone receptor with mutant K - Ras led to suppression of tumorigenicity and inhibition of the activation of ER . The antisense oligomers complementary to the ER suppressed proliferation and transformed phenotypes of K12V cells . These observations support the importance of ER in Ras - mediated cell transformation . Gene therapy for gliomas : p53 and E2F - 1 proteins and the target of apoptosis . Current therapy for glioma is suboptimal . The transfer of apoptosis genes to tumors constitutes one of the most promising strategies for cancer gene therapy . We have previously shown that massive apoptosis occurs when wild - type p53 or E2F - 1 expression is induced in glioma . However , the mechanism of action and the efficiency in inducing apoptosis of these two proteins are not similar . Adenovirus - mediated p53 gene transfer is ineffective in causing apoptosis in glioma cells that retain wild - type p53 genotype or overexpress the p21 protein . The p16 / Rb / E2F pathway is the most frequent target of genetic alterations in gliomas , and therefore constitutes a suitable target for gene therapy strategies . However , the transfer of either the p16 or Rb gene to glioma cells results in cytostatic effect . The E2F - 1 protein is able to induce generalized apoptosis in gliomas independently of the p53 , p16 or Rb status . In addition , p21 - or p16 - mediated growth arrest did not protect glioma cells from E2F - 1 - mediated apoptosis . The apoptotic molecule bax is induced in p53 - mediated apoptosis , but bax is not induced in E2F - 1 - mediated apoptosis in glioma cells . Careful selection of patients may be necessary before designing therapeutic strategies using either p53 or E2F - 1 as a therapeutic tools for glioma patients . Protective function of von Hippel - Lindau protein against impaired protein processing in renal carcinoma cells . The absence of functional von Hippel - Lindau ( VHL ) tumor suppressor gene leads to the development of neoplasias characteristic of VHL disease , including renal cell carcinoma ( RCC ) . Here , we compared the sensitivity of RCC cells lacking VHL gene function with that of RCC cells expressing the wild - type VHL gene ( wtVHL ) after exposure to various stresses . While the response to most treatments was not affected by the VHL gene status , glucose deprivation was found to be much more cytotoxic for RCC cells lacking VHL gene function than for wtVHL - expressing cells . The heightened sensitivity of VHL - deficient cells was not attributed to dissimilar energy requirements or to differences in glucose uptake , but more likely reflects a lesser ability of VHL - deficient cells to handle abnormally processed proteins arising from impaired glycosylation . In support of this hypothesis , other treatments which act through different mechanisms to interfere with protein processing ( i . e . , tunicamycin , brefeldin A , and azetidine ) were also found to be much more toxic for VHL - deficient cells . Furthermore , ubiquitination of cellular proteins was elevated in VHL - deficient cells , particularly after glucose deprivation , supporting a role for the VHL gene in ubiquitin - mediated proteolysis . Accordingly , the rate of elimination of abnormal proteins was lower in cells lacking a functional VHL gene than in wtVHL - expressing cells . Thus , pVHL appears to participate in the elimination of misprocessed proteins , such as those arising in the cell due to the unavailability of glucose or to other stresses . Effect of U - 995 , a potent shark cartilage - derived angiogenesis inhibitor , on anti - angiogenesis and anti - tumor activities . BACKGROUND : A potent angiogenesis inhibitor , U - 995 , has been purified from the cartilage of the blue shark ( Prionace glauca ) . U - 995 is composed of two single peptides with molecular mass of 10 and 14 kDa , respectively . MATERIALS AND METHODS : U - 995 was designed to study human umbilical vein endothelial cell ( HUVEC ) migration and proliferation in vitro and angiogenesis induced by TNF alpha in chicken chorioallantoic membrane ( CAM ) . Furthermore , we determined the ability of U - 995 to inhibiting tumor cell growth and metastasis . RESULTS : U - 995 ( 15 and 30 micrograms / ml ) markedly inhibited HUVEC migration and , at 15 - 50 micrograms / ml produced a dose - dependent decline in [ 3H ] - thymidine incorporation . 30 and 50 micrograms / ml of U - 995 , when added to TNF alpha - induced angiogenesis caused discontinuous and disrupted blood vessels . Moreover , U - 995 ( 30 micrograms / ml ) markedly prevented collagenase - induced collagenolysis . In addition , when 200 micrograms U - 995 was injected i . p . into mice it suppressed sarcoma - 180 cell growth and B16 - F10 mouse melanoma cell metastasis in vivo . CONCLUSIONS : These results suggest that the anti - angiogenic effects of U - 995 may be be due to interference with the proliferation and migration of HUVECs as well as inhibition of collagenolysis , thereby leading to inhibition of both angiogenesis and tumor cell growth . Potential roles for focal adhesion kinase in development . Focal adhesion kinase ( pp125FAK or FAK ) is a protein tyrosine kinase which is associated with intracellular signalling cascades which are initiated when the integrin family of cell adhesion molecules engage extracellular matrix molecules . In cultured cells , this molecule is physically associated with focal adhesions , which are well - defined regions of intimate cell - to - substratum adhesion . In this location , it interacts with other proteins of the focal adhesion to activate intracellular signalling events associated with cell adhesion . The in vitro expression of FAK and its level of phosphorylation appear to be related to several physiological phenomena , including cell spreading , cell differentiation , cell locomotion and cell death . Because these phenomena are all of critical importance during morphogenesis , and because FAK is expressed in embryonic cells , evidence has been accumulating to indicate that FAK may be an important modulator of developmental processes . In this review , this evidence is surveyed together with evidence from analogous situations , such as tumour cell migration and invasiveness . Although evidence suggesting a role for FAK in morphogenesis is accumulating , current uncertainties regarding its cytoplasmic location and its molecular interactions in vivo make it difficult to reach definitive conclusions regarding the significance of its contributions to developmental processes . Selective inhibition of the renal dopamine subtype D1A receptor induces antinatriuresis in conscious rats . Both dopamine D1 - like ( D1A and D1B ) and D2 - like ( D2 , D3 , and D4 ) receptor subfamilies are present in the kidney . Blockade of the intrarenal D1 - like receptor family is associated with natriuresis and diuresis . Because the D1A and D1B receptor subtypes are not distinguishable by currently available dopaminergic agents , their functional role remains undefined . In the present study , the effect of selective inhibition of the renal D1A receptor with phosphorothioated antisense oligodeoxynucleotide ( AS - ODN ) was investigated in conscious uninephrectomized rats . After renal interstitial administration of Texas red - labeled D1A receptor AS - ODN , intense fluorescent signal was localized in the renal tubular epithelium and vasculature . In rats on normal salt intake , AS - ODN injected interstitially into the kidney reduced daily urinary sodium excretion ( 1 . 4 + / - 0 . 04 versus 0 . 8 + / - 0 . 2 mEq / d , n = 5 , P < 0 . 05 ) and urine output ( 16 . 9 + / - 3 . 8 versus 12 . 5 + / - 3 . 6 mL / d , n = 5 , P < 0 . 05 ) . In rats on high sodium intake , continuous renal interstitial administration of D1A receptor AS - ODN transiently decreased daily urinary sodium excretion ( 5 . 4 + / - 0 . 5 versus 4 . 2 + / - 0 . 3 mEq / d , n = 7 , P < 0 . 01 ) and urine output ( 27 . 6 + / - 4 . 5 versus 18 . 1 + / - 1 . 8 mL / d , n = 7 , P < 0 . 01 ) . Neither vehicle nor sense oligodeoxynucleotide had significant effects . Systolic blood pressure remained unchanged . The renal D1A receptor protein was significantly decreased by 35 % and 46 % at the end of the study in AS - ODN - treated rats on normal and high salt intake , respectively , whereas the D1B receptor and beta - actin were not affected . These results provide the first direct evidence that the renal D1A receptor subtype plays an important role in the control of sodium excretion . 
