** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** Two modes of microsatellite instability in human cancer : differential connection of defective DNA mismatch repair to dinucleotide repeat instability Abstract Microsatellite instability ( MSI) is associated with defective DNA mismatch repair in various human malignancies . Using a unique fluorescent technique , we have observed two distinct modes of dinucleotide microsatellite alterations in human colorectal cancer . Type A alterations are defined as length changes of ≤6 bp . Type B changes are more drastic and involve modifications of ≥8 bp . We show here that defective mismatch repair is necessary and sufficient for Type A changes . These changes were observed in cell lines and in tumours from mismatch repair gene-knockout mice . No Type B instability was seen in these cells or tumours . In a panel of human colorectal tumours , both Type A MSI and Type B instability were observed . Both types of MSI were associated with hMSH2 or hMLH1 mismatch repair gene alterations . Intriguingly , p53 mutations , which are generally regarded as uncommon in human tumours of the MSI+ phenotype , were frequently associated with Type A instability , whereas none was found in tumours with Type B instability , reflecting the prevailing viewpoint . Inspection of published data reveals that the microsatellite instability that has been observed in various malignancies , including those associated with Hereditary Non-Polyposis Colorectal Cancer ( HNPCC) , is predominantly Type B. Our findings indicate that Type B instability is not a simple reflection of a repair defect . We suggest that there are at least two qualitatively distinct modes of dinucleotide MSI in human colorectal cancer , and that different molecular mechanisms may underlie these modes of MSI. The relationship between MSI and defective mismatch repair may be more complex than hitherto suspected . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** Analysis of microsatellites in MEFs and tumours from MMR-defective animals therefore indicates that Type A MSI is a direct consequence of defective MMR. The absence of more extensive microsatellite length changes may indicate further that an Msh2 or Mlh1 defect is insufficient for the development of Type B instability . Mismatch repair gene inactivation is associated with both Type A and Type B MSI in human colorectal cancer HNPCC patients inherit mutations in MMR genes (6,7 ) . More than 90 % of HNPCC tumours are MSI+ ( 20 ) . The MSI+ phenotype is also frequent among sporadic colorectal carcinomas ( 2–4,6,21 ) . Inspection of published data derived from the conventional microsatellite analysis reveals that microsatellite changes thus far reported in various tumours , including those in HNPCC individuals , are largely Type B ( 2–4,20–22 ) . We considered the possibility that the more subtle Type A MSI might have remained undetected in some cases . Using our fluorescent assay with a panel of five dinucleotide repeat microsatellites , we found that the frequencies of Type A and Type B MSI among 79 colorectal carcinomas were 30 % and 17 % , respectively . In agreement with previous observations that Type B instability is common in HNPCC colon tumours , the IC690 tumour and the colorectal carcinoma cell line , NoTa ( Table 1 ) , both of which were derived from patients who fulfilled the Amsterdam Criteria II for HNPCC ( 23 ) , exhibited Type B instability ( Figure 1G and H) . Our finding that 17 % of colorectal tumours display Type B MSI is consistent with the generally reported figure of around 20 % for MSI among colorectal carcinomas ( 20,24,25 ) . The observation that a further 30 % of tumours displayed Type A MSI suggests that the frequency of MSI , at least in colorectal carcinomas , has previously been underestimated . The relationship between MSI and defective MMR in our set of colorectal tumours was investigated further . hMSH2 and hMLH1 MMR genes of 12 tumours with Type A and 9 with Type B MSI were sequenced . The same genes in the NoTa cell line were also sequenced ( Figure 3A and Table 1 ) . Sequence alterations causing amino acid substitutions were identified in 5 of the 21 tumours . Four of these ( 80 % ) were associated with Type A MSI. In addition , one patient with Type A MSI ( IC793 ) in whom no mutation was identified was negative for immunohistochemical staining of hMLH1 ( Figure 3B , panel b ) . This is consistent with a possible epigenetic hMLH1 gene silencing ( 26–28 ) . In one other Type A case ( IC669 ) and one Type B case ( IC690 ) , there was an abnormal intracellular distribution of hMLH1 which remained predominantly cytoplasmic ( Figure 3B , panels c and d ) . Among the 10 tumours displaying Type B MSI , there was an example of base substitutions causing amino acid change in hMLH1 . In this case , IC690 , the failure of hMLH1 to localize to the nucleus was associated with the codon 226 mutation in exon 8 ( Figure 3A , panel c ) . These findings suggest that Type A instability , as well as Type B , is indeed associated with MMR defects . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** DISCUSSION The fluorescent technique we used here allows the unequivocal designation of Type A and Type B MSI , and has revealed a previously unrecognized complexity in the relationship between dinucleotide MSI and defective DNA MMR in human cancer . Type A MSI ( changes ≤ 6 bp ) is clearly linked with MMR inactivation in both mice and humans , which implies that Type A MSI is a direct consequence of defective MMR. Since we found no evidence of Type B instability ( changes ≥ 8 bp ) in MMR-defective animals , it is possible that changes in addition to repair deficiency contribute to , or are responsible for , Type B MSI. One important finding of this study is that Type A instability is frequent among human tumours . Type A MSI predominated in our large panel of colorectal carcinomas . We suggest that , because the changes associated with Type A instability are more subtle , the frequency of MSI among colorectal tumours may have been considerably underestimated . Our findings also reveal a hitherto unrecognized association between defective MMR and p53 mutation . Significantly , Type A MSI was strongly associated with p53 mutation in human colorectal tumours . Since Type A instability is unequivocally associated with MMR deficiency , this novel finding implies that , in contrast to prevailing opinion , p53 mutations are common in MMR-defective tumours , at least in human colorectal cancer . Established guidelines for classification of MSI utilize the frequency of changes in a defined set of microsatellite markers , i .e . MSI-H and -L ( 10 ) . However , qualitative differences in microsatellite changes are not widely discussed . In one of the earliest report of the MSI phenomenon , however , Thibodeau et al . divided microsatellite changes into two categories ; Type I and II mutations ( 3 ) . The former was defined a ‘significant increase ( expansion ) or decrease ( deletion ) in the apparent fragment size ’ and the latter as a ‘single 2 bp change’ . This distinction has received little attention since then . Our data indicate that Type A MSI , which appears similar to their Type II mutation , is more frequent than hitherto suspected , and suggest that it represents the bona fide MMR-deficient phenotype . On the other hand , Type I mutations may correspond to our Type B instability . The problem is that mutations in MMR genes have been reported in tumours displaying this type of instability . More than 90 % of HNPCC tumours are MSI+ ( 20 ) , and this type of MSI can be categorized as Type B/Type I ( 2–4,20–22 ) . However , the frequencies of mutation in the two major MMR genes , hMSH2 and hMLH1 , in HNPCC kindred are not high in some reports ( 35–40 ) . Among the panel of tumours displaying Type B MSI , we found a base substitution mutation in hMLH1 and one case with a possible hMLH1 silencing . This incidence of MMR gene inactivation in the Type B group is not unduly low , compared with the reported frequencies in the literature ( 25,36,41–43 ) . The relationship between Type B MSI and defective MMR is probably more complex than hitherto suspected . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** Background Cancer is thought to arise through a multistep process involving sequential cycles of mutation and selection [1] . The identities and numbers of mutations required for transformation are uncertain , but perhaps six general cellular functions are typically altered [2] . Numbers of oncogenic mutations may also be inferred from the age-related increases in frequencies observed with many cancer types . For example , logarithms of cancer frequencies versus age typically yield straight lines , with slopes proportional to numbers of cancer mutations [3] . Colorectal cancer epidemiology is consistent with approximately five to seven oncogenic mutations before transformation [3-6] . The variability in estimated numbers of mutations may reflect a number of differences . For example , estimates vary between populations , with five to six mutations in England and six to seven mutations in Finland [4] . Recent advances in cancer genetics also reveal biologic colorectal cancer heterogeneity . Approximately 5 % of all colorectal cancers have strong familial predispositions and arise in individuals with germline mutations in critical susceptibility loci [7] . Such hereditary cancers ( familial adenomatous polyposis ( FAP ) and hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer ( HNPCC) ) typically present at younger ages and should require fewer somatic mutations than their sporadic counterparts because one mutation is inherited . Genetic instability also divides colorectal cancers into two groups [8] . Approximately 10 to 15 % of sporadic cancers exhibit microsatellite instability ( MSI) secondary to somatic loss of DNA mismatch repair ( MMR ) . Most other cancers exhibit chromosomal instability ( CIN ) characterized by aneuploidy and loss of heterozygosity ( LOH) [7,8] . CIN and MSI+ colorectal cancers have different characteristics with respect to mutated loci , tumor location , morphology , and clinical outcomes [7,8] . Numbers of oncogenic mutations may differ between cancer subtypes . Therefore , colorectal cancers arising in a population-based setting were molecularly classified as either sporadic or hereditary , and MSI+ or MSI-. Cancers were also classified with respect to clinical stage because additional mutations may be required for invasion or metastasis . Ages at cancer for each subgroup were used to infer numbers of mutations required for each type of colorectal cancer . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** Conclusion The biology of cancer must underlie the epidemiology of cancer . Here we illustrate that multistage models provide conceptually plausible solutions even when colorectal cancers are divided into biologically relevant and quite different subtypes . Ages at cancer are consistent with five or six somatic oncogenic mutations for hereditary ( HNPCC ) MSI+ cancers and seven or eight mutations for its sporadic counterpart . The apparent requirement for more than one additional somatic mutation in sporadic MSI+ cancers may reflect that MMR inactivation is commonly epigenetic , which may involve multiple steps . Ages at MSI- cancers were consistent with six or seven oncogenic mutations , with similar estimates for all clinical stages , suggesting that mutations acquired very early in life dictate the cancer phenotype at the time of transformation . Better integration of cancer epidemiology with its biology remains a further challenge . Background Carcinogenesis is a multi-step process that involves the accumulation of numerous genetic and epigenetic changes in cells [1] . These genetic aberrations affect a limited number of identified pathways that are involved in ( colorectal ) carcinogenesis [2] . A genetic model for sporadic colorectal cancer has been proposed , which describes the sequential accumulation of specific genetic alterations in various pathways , involving tumour suppressor genes ( e .g . APC , SMAD4 , TP53 ) and oncogenes ( e .g . CTNNB1 , K-ras ) [3,4] . Important molecular pathways that upon activation affect the early and intermediate stages of colorectal carcinogenesis are the Wnt and Ras signalling pathways , whereas TP53 inactivation is considered a late event . Activation of the Wnt pathway plays a central role in the aetiology of most colorectal cancers and is often the result of mutations in the N-terminal domain of the APC gene , that lead to partial or complete loss of this region and thereby to loss of the β-catenin regulating function [5,6] . Conversely , in tumours lacking these APC mutations [7] , activating missense mutations at one of the phosphorylation sites at codons 31 , 33 , 37 and 45 of exon 3 of the CTNNB1 gene ( encoding the β-catenin protein ) can render it stable as it can no longer be tagged for cellular degradation . Activation of the Ras pathway in cancer is marked by the loss of the intrinsic GTPase activity of the Ras protein , which can be ascribed to missense mutations in codons 12 and 13 of exon 1 , which are responsible for 90 % activating mutations in the of the K-ras gene [8] . According to the paradigm for colorectal cancer development , mutations in the APC and K-ras are thought to contribute to the early developmental stages of colorectal cancer [3] . However , a recent study based on the analysis of APC , K-ras and TP53 genes concluded that simultaneous occurrence of all three genetic alterations is rare and that multiple genetic pathways may be relevant to colorectal cancer [9] . Genetic instability is seen in most types of cancer [10] . Two distinct types of genetic instability appear to occur in colorectal cancer [11] : chromosomal and microsatellite instability . Chromosomal instability results in gains or losses of entire chromosomes or parts of them , and gives rise to aneuploid tumours and occurs in the majority of cancers . A smaller proportion of colorectal cancers displays microsatellite instability , represented by diploid cells acquiring high mutation rates , and was found to be associated with defective mismatch repair [12] . These tumours are less likely to harbour mutations in genes associated with chromosomally instable and generally aneuploid tumours , such as APC , K-ras and TP53 [13-21] , suggesting that these tumours form a distinct group . Moreover , microsatellite instable tumours are found predominantly in the proximal colon [22,23] , are more likely to occur in patients with a positive family history of colorectal cancer [22,23] , are often less differentiated than microsatellite stable tumours [22] , and occur more frequently in women [24] and at older age [25] . Moreover , in tumours displaying microsatellite instability , mutations the CTNNB1 gene were more frequent [26] . Methods Study population The prospective Netherlands Cohort Study on diet and cancer was initiated in September 1986 . The study design has been described in detail elsewhere [29] . The study population originated from 204 municipal population registries throughout the Netherlands , and included a total of 58,279 men and 62,573 women between the ages of 55 and 69 years at baseline . Incident cancer cases are identified by monitoring of the entire cohort for cancer occurrence through annual record linkage to the Netherlands Cancer Registry , i .e . nine regional cancer registries throughout the Netherlands , and to PALGA , a nationwide network and registry of histo - and cytopathology [30] . Together , the NCR and PALGA provide a near 100 % coverage of the municipalities included in the NLCS. The first 2.3 years of follow up were excluded because of possible pre-clinical disease affecting exposure status and because of incomplete nationwide coverage of PALGA in some of the municipalities included in the NLCS in that period . From 1989 until 1994 , 929 incident cases with histologically confirmed colorectal cancer were identified within the cohort , of whom 819 could also be linked to a PALGA report of the lesion . The PALGA reports were used to identify and locate tumour tissue from eligible colorectal cancer patients in Dutch pathology laboratories . Colon and rectal cancer were classified according to site as follows , colon : cecum through sigmoid colon ( ICD-O codes 153.0, 153.1 , 153.2 , 153.3 , 153.4 , 153.5 , 153.6 , 153.7 ) , rectosigmoid ( ICD-O code 154.0) , and rectum ( ICD-O code 154.1 ) . Tissue samples Tumour material of colorectal cancer patients was collected after approval by the Ethical Review Board of Maastricht University , PALGA and the NCR. Tissue samples from 819 colorectal cancer patients were localized in 54 pathology laboratories throughout the Netherlands . Forty-four ( 5 % ) tumour tissue samples could not be retrieved from the pathology archives . Of 775 available tissue samples , 737 ( 95 % ) contained sufficient tumour material for molecular analyses . Tissue sections were cut from each sample , which were used for DNA isolation and immunohistochemical analysis . DNA isolation DNA isolation was described in detail elsewhere [27] . Briefly , a 4 μm section , cut from each paraffin-embedded tumour tissue block , was stained with haematoxylin and eosin ( HE ) for histopathological examination by a pathologist . Five 20 μm sections of tumour tissue were cut from each sample for DNA isolation . Tumour tissue was separated from normal colon epithelium using the HE section as a reference . Genomic DNA was extracted from macrodissected tumour tissue using proteinase K ( Qiagen , St . Louis , MO , USA ) and the Puregene DNA isolation kit ( Gentra Systems , Minneapolis , MN , USA ) . DNA concentration and purity was measured at 260 and 280 nm . Conclusion In conclusion , this study shows that mutations in the CTNNB1 gene are presumably of minor importance in sporadic colorectal cancer . Although APC and K-ras mutations are often observed seperately in a tumour , these mutations seem to also occur in a co-dependent manner . Tumours that display mismatch repair deficiency , may form a distinct sub-group as they differ from tumours with APC and/or K-ras mutations with regard to age , sex , tumour sub-localisation and differentiation . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** Background BRAF is a member of the RAF family of kinases that acts upstream of the MEK1/2 kinases in response to RAS signals . Activating mutations in BRAF have been reported in 5–15 % of colorectal carcinomas ( CRC ) , with by far the most common mutation being a 1796T to A transversion leading to a V600E substitution [1-3] . The BRAF V600E hotspot mutation is strongly associated with the microsatellite instability ( MSI+ ) phenotype but is mutually exclusive with KRAS mutations [4-7] . Interestingly , BRAF mutations are found only in MSI+ sporadic tumors that result from aberrant MLH1 promoter methylation and do not occur in MSI+ tumors from hereditary non-polyposis colorectal cancer ( HNPCC ) patients [5,8-10] , thus providing a convenient discriminator between sporadic and familial cases . The majority of MSI+ sporadic tumors belong to a larger CRC group referred to as the CpG island methylator phenotype ( CIMP+ ) that is characterised by widespread hypermethylation of CpG islands located with gene promoter regions [11] . Both MSI+ and CIMP+ tumors are thought to arise from large hyperplastic polyps and serrated adenomas [12,13] and recent work has demonstrated a high frequency of BRAF mutations in these lesions [7,14,15] . Although the positive association with MSI+ and inverse association with KRAS mutation have been well documented , little is known about the other properties of tumors with BRAF mutation . In the present study we analysed for BRAF V600E mutations in a consecutive series of 275 CRCs that were well characterised for the major pathological and molecular features of this disease . Our results demonstrate that oncogenic BRAF mutation occurs preferentially within a subgroup of CRCs that have distinctive features . It could therefore be used as a convenient marker for the further characterisation of these tumors , particularly in relation to their prognosis and response to adjuvant chemotherapy . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** Results Figure 1A shows representative Fluorescent-SSCP results for the screening of BRAF mutations in this CRC series , while Figure 1B shows DNA sequencing confirmation of the 1799T to A transversion resulting in the V600E mutation . The overall frequency of BRAF mutation was 8.4 % ( 23/275 ) , comparing favourably with frequencies of 9–11 % reported for other large studies of this tumor type [6,16,17] . The mean age of patients with and without BRAF mutation was identical ( Table 1 ) . Strong associations were observed between BRAF mutation and tumor origin in the proximal side of the large bowel , poor histological grade , mucinous appearance and the presence of infiltrating lymphocytes . Higher frequencies of BRAF mutation were also observed in females and in node negative tumors but these did not reach significance . ( A ) Representative F-SSCP gel used to detect BRAF mutationsin colorectal cancer . WT , wild-type ; M , mutation . ( B ) DNA sequencing gel resultconfirms the presence of a 1799T to A mutation giving rise to the V600E mutation . Associations between BRAF mutation and clinicopathological features of colorectal cancer . a Data was unavailable for gender in 43 cases , infiltrating lymphocytes in 55 cases , nodal involvement in 77 cases , tumor site in 56 cases , grade in 106 cases and mucinous appearance in 89 cases . BRAF mutations showed no association with TP53 mutations and were mutually exclusive with the presence of KRAS mutations ( Table 2 ) . In contrast , BRAF mutations were approximately 10-fold more frequent in MSI+ and CIMP+ tumors compared to tumors without these phenotypes . A strong association was also seen with methylation of the MLH1 gene promoter and in particular with methylation of its proximal region . We have previously examined the methylation status of 7 different CpG islands in this CRC series [18] . The mean number of these methylated sites was 3-fold higher in tumors with BRAF mutation compared to those without ( 2.6 ± 1.7 vs 0.8 ± 1.0 ; P < 0.001 ) . Multivariate analysis revealed that MSI+ was the only significant independent predictor of BRAF mutation ( RR = 6.3 , 95 %C I [1.2–32.3] ; P = 0.028 ) in a model that included CIMP+ , tumor site , histological grade , presence of infiltrating lymphocytes and mucinous appearance . Associations between BRAF mutation and molecular features of colorectal cancer . a Data was unavailable for MSI status in 40 cases , methylation status in 83 cases , KRAS mutation in 26 cases and TP53 mutation in 26 cases We next examined whether the characteristic features of tumors with BRAF mutation were still apparent following stratification into MSI and CIMP phenotypes . Although the statistical power of this subgroup analysis was limited , the morphological features of infiltrating lymphocytes , poor histological grade and mucinous appearance were clearly associated with BRAF mutation regardless of tumor MSI status ( Table 3 ) . Similarly , these features were each more common in tumors with BRAF mutation in both the CIMP- and CIMP+ subgroups ( Table 4) . Similar to previous observations in a separate CRC cohort [20] , the frequency of KRAS mutation was lower in MSI+ compared to MSI- tumors ( P = 0.034 ; Table 3 ) , while the frequency of TP53 mutation was also considerably lower in MSI+ tumors with wildtype BRAF than in MSI- tumors with wildtype BRAF ( P = 0.014 ) . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** Mismatch repair and treatment resistance in ovarian cancer Abstract Background The treatment of ovarian cancer is hindered by intrinsic or acquired resistance to platinum-based chemotherapy . The aim of this study is to determine the frequency of mismatch repair ( MMR ) inactivation in ovarian cancer and its association with resistance to platinum-based chemotherapy . Methods We determined , microsatellite instability ( MSI) as a marker for MMR inactivation ( analysis of BAT25 and BAT26 ) , MLH1 promoter methylation status ( methylation specific PCR on bisulfite treated DNA ) and mRNA expression of MLH1 , MSH2 , MSH3 , MSH6 and PMS2 (quantitative RT-PCR ) in 75 ovarian carcinomas and eight ovarian cancer cell lines Results MSI was detected in three of the eight cell lines i .e . A2780 ( no MLH1 mRNA expression due to promoter methylation ) , SKOV3 ( no MLH1 mRNA expression ) and 2774 ( no altered expression of MMR genes ) . Overall , there was no association between cisplatin response and MMR status in these eight cell lines . Seven of the 75 ovarian carcinomas showed MLH1 promoter methylation , however , none of these showed MSI. Forty-six of these patients received platinum-based chemotherapy ( 11 non-responders , 34 responders , one unknown response ) . The resistance seen in the eleven non-responders was not related to MSI and therefore also not to MMR inactivation . Conclusion No MMR inactivation was detected in 75 ovarian carcinoma specimens and no association was seen between MMR inactivation and resistance in the ovarian cancer cell lines as well as the ovarian carcinomas . In the discussion , the results were compared to that of twenty similar studies in the literature including in total 1315 ovarian cancer patients . Although no association between response and MMR status was seen in the primary tumor the possible role of MMR inactivation in acquired resistance deserves further investigation . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** Interestingly , a number of in vitro studies have suggested a relationship between MMR deficiency and platinum-drug resistance . Several resistant sublines of ovarian and melanoma cell lines generated by cisplatin selection , appeared to be MMR deficient [11-15] . In addition , a colon ( HCT116 ) and an endometrioid cell line ( HEC59 ) , deficient for MLH1 and MSH2 respectively , were 2.1 and 1.8 fold resistant to cisplatin compared to cell lines complemented with chromosome 3 , containing MLH1 , or chromosome 2 , containing MSH2 [15-17] . These in vitro studies suggest that inactivation of proteins involved in the initiation of MMR might cause cisplatin resistance . It is thought that the DNA damage caused by platin-drugs is recognized by MMR. The cell will then undergo several unsuccessful repair cycles , finally resulting in the induction of apoptosis . When MMR is inactive the DNA damage caused by platin-drugs will not be picked up and will therefore not result in apoptosis rendering the cells resistant to platin-drugs . Several studies have determined the frequency of MMR inactivation in ovarian cancer using MSI as a marker [18-37] . However , there was a wide range observed ( 0 % –39 % ) and so far only a few studies have linked MMR inactivation to platinum-based chemotherapy resistance . Thus , there is still no general agreement about the frequency of MMR inactivation and its possible involvement in the platinum-based chemotherapy resistance seen in ovarian cancer patients . The aim of this study is to determine the frequency of mismatch repair ( MMR ) inactivation in ovarian cancer and whether it is associated with platinum-based chemotherapy resistance . To this purpose we analyzed seventy-five ovarian carcinomas and eight ovarian cancer cell lines . In the discussion , the results were compared to that of twenty similar studies in the literature including in total 1315 ovarian cancer patients . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** Another difference between the studies is the distribution of the various histological types of the ovarian carcinoma tissues analyzed ( Table 2 ) . This difference in the distribution could be a cause for the wide range in the MSI frequency especially since it has been suggested that certain histological types have a higher frequency of MSI. To determine whether there is a relation between histology and MSI within these studies , we looked at the frequency of MSI per histological type for the 628 patients with known histology ( Table 2 ) . The summary of these studies suggests that the frequency of MSI is higher in the mucinous and endometrioid adenocarcinoma compared to clear cell and serous adenocarcinoma ( the overall frequencies of MSI were 22 % , 16 % , 9 % and 8 % , respectively ) ( Table 2 ) . We hypothesize that mucinous and endometrioid histology might be prone to a higher MSI frequency since sporadic endometrial carcinoma , which is closely related to endometrioid ovarian cancer , has a MSI frequency of 20–30 % [49-51] and MSI is almost universal present in the colorectal tumors of the hereditary nonpolyposis colon cancer ( HNPCC ) syndrome which all have a mucinous histological type . Therefore , the different histology 's of the ovarian carcinomas included in the several studies seems to be a plausible cause for the wide range in MSI frequency reported in these studies . Next we addressed the second part of the aim of this study , is MMR inactivation associated with resistance to platinum-based chemotherapy in ovarian cancer . Forty-six of the 75 ovarian carcinomas we analyzed had been treated with platinum-based chemotherapy , eleven did not respond and 34 did . For one patient the response was not known . Methylation of the MLH1 promoter was detected in two of the eleven non-responders ( 18 % ) and four of the 34 responders ( 12 % ) and this was not significantly different ( p = 0.664 ) . Since we did not detect any MSI , the resistance seen in the eleven patients could not be associated with MSI and MMR inactivation . The relation between MMR deficiency and platinum-drug resistance has been investigated in only a few in vivo studies . Similarly to our result , no MSI was detected by Mesquita et al . [18] who studied 34 ovarian carcinomas of which seven did not respond to cisplatin/paclitaxel therapy . So the resistance seen in these seven nonresponding patients was also not associated with MMR inactivation . In contrast , Samimi et al . [52] found an inverse relation between MLH1 protein expression and the response to platinum-based chemotherapy in 54 ovarian carcinomas . Again , the number of ovarian carcinomas included in these studies is small and no further conclusion can be drawn from these results . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** Since platinum-drug resistance is thought to be multifactorial the involvement of other resistance mechanisms could have overruled the possible contribution of MMR status . However , platinum treatment does seem to select for MMR deficient cells since in vitro enrichment for MLH1 deficient colon cancer HCT116 cells in a mixed cell population was seen after cisplatin treatment [53] . In addition , several in vivo studies found an increase in the percentage of MSI and MLH1 methylation after platinum-based chemotherapy as well as a decrease in the percentage of cells positive for MLH1 and MSH2 [14,19,25,52] . Moreover , an increase in MLH1 methylation after platinum-based chemotherapy was associated with poor survival in ovarian cancer patients [19] . These results as well as the in vitro studies mentioned in the introduction , suggest that MMR inactivation causes a low level resistance to platinum-based chemotherapy which does not play a significant role in intrinsic resistance . However , due to selection during chemotherapy MMR inactivation might play a greater role in the acquired resistance . We therefore propose that the role of MMR inactivation in acquired resistance in ovarian cancer should be further investigated . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** Whole-chromosome plots of running average of fractions of samples showing up-/down-regulation in tumor versus normal samples ( Chromosome 17,18,19,20,21,22,X,Y) . For each chromosome you see a separate figure . Gray dots denote the number of patients with up - or down-regulation for a single gene . Orange/green lines represent a running average of these values . The plots are made to be easily comparable with whole-genome CGH plots ( like e.g . those in Knösel et al . [21] ) Further details of plot construction are described in the methods section . Individual chromosomal islands of up - or down-regulation . These are condensed results of the ChARM analyses : overlapping regions with evidence for up - or down-regulation from various analyses of different cross-correlation window sizes have been fused into single regions . The original ChARM output including p values for each region and additional annotation can be found in Additional file 1 . Hereditary colorectal cancer syndromes are indicated along with their OMIM ID. Gene symbols are official or provisional HUGO symbols if available , otherwise names of Unigene clusters . Information about known tumor genes in misregulated regions were extracted from the literature . Tumor-associated genes are located within expression islands or in near vicinity . Statistics on expression imbalances across human chromosomes . Here , estimates of portions of chromosomes that are affected by regional regulation of expression are given . The second column gives the number of genes on a particular chromosome that were included in our analysis . The following columns contain the numbers of genes that are located in deregulated expression islands (up/down ) . Individual chromosomal islands with gain of expression 8q11.23-q21.13 Gain of expression in region 8q11.23-q21.13 is strongest in a small interval ( 8q12.1 ) that spans genes from TCEA1 to PLAG1 ( see Figures 6 , 7 , 8 ) . There have been numerous reports of copy number gains of chromosome 8q in CRC [18,21,23,25 ] which suggests a possible mechanism leading to over-expression in our patients . The known blood cell oncogene LYN is located in this interval and it is up-regulated in several of our tumor samples . It has been reported before that LYN is expressed in colorectal tumors [26] . The concerted up-regulation of LYN along with other genes in this region suggests a role for LYN in CRC. Another interesting gene in this interval is PLAG1 ( pleomorphic adenoma gene 1 ) for which chromosomal aberrations have been described that lead to over-expression in salivary gland tumors [27,28] . No informative expression measures were obtained for the MOS protein kinase gene which is located between RPS20 and PLAG1 , although this may be due to technical limitations . Genes encoding components of the translation machinery , the mitochondrial ribosomal protein MRPL15 and cytosolic ribosomal proteins RPL7 and RPS20 , are located in this region , highlighting the need for enhanced translation in cancer cells . The concomitant down-regulation of the TOX and ANKTM1 genes in many patients in an environment of transcriptional activation is remarkable , but the functional significance remains unclear . Buffart et al . have reported amplifications of 8q11-q24 in metastasizing CRC [29] , highlighting a possible mechanism for gain of expression in this region . In summary , our analysis suggests that chromosomal region 8q12.1 is a candidate target region for genetic alterations that lead to over-expression in CRC. ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** Up-regulation of mRNA expression in human chromosomal region 8q11.23-q21.13 ( T/N relative expression heat map ) . Heat map of fold change of tumor-versus-normal expression . Genes are given in chromosomal order on the horizontal axis . Patient codes are given on the vertical axis . The legend depicts which colors code for which expression changes on a loge scale ( green : down in tumor ; red : up in tumor ) . View in conjunction with Figures 7 and 8. Up-regulation of mRNA expression in human chromosomal region 8q11.23-q21.13 ( patient counts with coordinate up-regulation ) . Grayscale plot of cross-comparison of up-regulation patterns across patients for gene pairs in a particular region . Both , horizontal and vertical axes comprise the same genes in chromosomal order . In each square total counts of patients with consistent up-regulation in two genes are coded by different shades of gray . Dark squared regions along the diagonal indicate coordinated regulation in patient subgroups . Note , that many more patients show up-regulation as indicated by dark spots in this figure than down-regulation as indicated by dark spots in Figure 8. The left region of exceptionally strong up-regulation spans TCEA1 , LYPLA1 , MRPL15 , the known tumor gene LYN , and PLAG1 . Note that TOX and ANKTM1 are down-regulated in approximately half of the tumor samples . Up-regulation of mRNA expression in human chromosomal region 8q11.23-q21.13 ( patient counts with coordinate down-regulation ) . Grayscale plot of cross-comparison of down-regulation patterns across patients for gene pairs in a particular region . Both , horizontal and vertical axes comprise the same genes in chromosomal order . In each square total counts of patients with consistent down-regulation in two genes are coded by different shades of gray . Dark squared regions along the diagonal indicate coordinated regulation in patient subgroups . View in conjunction with Figures 6 and 7. 20q11.22-q11.23 The region 20q11.22-q11.23 was among the most frequently up-regulated regions ( see Figures 12 , 13 , 14 ) . Amplifications of regions on chromosome 20q have been identified independently by several groups in CRCs [19,21,23,24] . The interval comprises the known tumor gene SRC ( located between MANBAL and BLCAP in Figures 12 , 13 , 14 ) for which no informative expression measures were obtained . We note that it is possible that the SRC gene is the primary target of up-regulation in our CRC patients , the up-regulation of other genes being just piggy-back effects . However , also the up-regulation of the CTNN1L1 transcript could be of potential functional significance for CRC development . CTNN1L1 shows partial homology to the known colorectal cancer gene beta-catenin in the armadillo repeat region and has a nuclear localization signal , suggesting that it could play an important role in signal transduction to the nucleus in CRC. Also up-regulation of the E3 ubiquitin ligase Itchy ( ITCH) could be of potential importance as selective ubiquitin-tagging of signaling proteins for destruction is an emerging mechanism in cancer biology . The need for accelerated protein synthesis in cancer cells is reflected by the up-regulation of the translation initiation factor EIF2S2 . Remarkably , we found dramatic down-regulation against the regional trend of C20orf110 alias p53-inducible protein 2 ( TP53INP2 ) whose expression is usually positively controlled by the p53 protein . For unknown reasons p53 seems to be unable to induce TP53INP2 expression in the majority of CRCs studied here . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** Down-regulation of mRNA expression in human chromosomal region 14q24.1-14q24.3 – the FOS region ( patient counts with coordinate up-regulation ) . Grayscale cross-comparison plot of up-regulation patterns across patients ( analogous to Figures 7 , 10 , 13 ) . View this plot in conjunction with Figures 30 and 32 . Down-regulation of mRNA expression in human chromosomal region 14q24.1-14q24.3 – the FOS region ( patient counts with coordinate down-regulation ) . Grayscale cross-comparison plot of down-regulation patterns across patients ( analogous to Figures 8 , 11 , 14 ) . View this plot in conjunction with Figures 30 and 31 . Note , that many more patients show down-regulation as indicated by dark spots in this plot than up-regulation as indicated by dark spots in Figure 31 . This region has been reported in other studies to be frequently deleted in colon cancer metastases ( see Table 1 ) . The FOS oncogene is the 5th gene from the right and is one of the most strongly down-regulated genes in this region . Note the expression of MLH3 , KIAA0317 , KIAA0440/SIPA1L1 , NUMB , SYNJ2BP and PSEN1 . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** Discussion Global analysis of chromosomal regions with expression gain or loss We found that 25 % of the genes lie in regions that are affected by expression imbalance in colon cancer . This does not mean that 25 % of the genes are misregulated as many genes that fall into these regions are not expressed at all in tumors and in normal epithelium of the colon . Additionally , we note that these numbers are probably an upper limit because the sliding window approach probably included several genes in close proximity to the boundaries of misexpressed regions . Nevertheless , the number of regions of imbalanced expression is remarkable and suggest that there is extensive regulation in CRC at the genomic level . Recently , Nakao et al . estimated from genome-wide array CGH data that ~17 % of the human genome is affected by DNA copy number changes in CRC [23] . Prior to a more detailed analysis of individual regions in this study , this suggested that not all regional expression changes in CRC will be explainable by DNA copy number aberrations . There are only slightly more genes with expression loss than regions with expression gain . One can argue that a tumor ought to show a higher frequency of expression loss than expression gain . Reasons are that there should be a tendency to lose tumor suppressor genes selectively and to lose non-essential genes ( genomic ballast ) as a side effect . If transcription would be a process that is predominantly driven by positive regulation of transcriptional activators , one would assume that any partial genome loss results in a slow down of transcription . In the light of these considerations , an equally high number of regions with expression gain can be interpreted in two ways . Either positive selection drives expression gain of some regions in cancer cells , or a default phenotype of transcription suppression dominates in normal cells which is relaxed during tumor cell development . Gene expression in chromosomal regions with frequent DNA copy number changes in CRC Most studies reported frequent gains of chromosome 7 , 8q , 13q , 20q and losses of 4 and 18q in CRC [18,19,21-25] . These broadly-defined alterations are in perfect agreement with chromosome-specific trends in our expression data , especially the exclusive presence of domains of expression gain on 8 , 13 and 20 and the exclusive presence of domains of expression loss on chromosome 4 and 18 ( see Table 2 and Figures 21 , 22 , 23 , 24 , 25 , 26 ) . There is a single discrepancy for chromosome 7 : region 7q11-7q12 has been reported as amplified in CRC , but its expression is significantly down-regulated in our tumor samples . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** Conclusion Roughly a quarter of all human genes is located in islands of misregulated gene expression in colorectal cancer . There are only slightly more down-regulated than up-regulated genes . Chromosomal regions that are linked to hereditary colorectal cancer often exhibit deregulated expression , suggesting that they are implicated in spontaneous CRC not only through collection of mutations . Thus , genes in these chromosomal hotspots may be systematically tested in patients with sporadic CRC for molecular lesions and for transcriptional silencing . Chromosomal regions that are frequently deleted in CRC very often comprise islands in which we found reduced expression . Although many regions that are known to be amplified in colorectal tumors show a gain of expression , there are also a considerable number of amplified islands that show no alterations or even down-regulation . Comparison of published CGH studies with our expression data suggests that amplified or deleted chromosomal regions are responsible for many islands with aberrant expression . However , we suggest that it is necessary to invoke other mechanism like epigenetic regulation of chromatin or disruption of enhancer actions to explain the remaining expression imbalances . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** Non-dysplastic serrated polyps : HP and SSA Non-dysplastic serrated polyps comprise conventional HPs and the variant lesion which has been described as SSA . In this study , SSAs accounted for approximately 3 % of the overall series of polyps and were more age-related than HPs . Importantly , SSAs have been linked with the subset of colorectal cancer with BRAF mutation , DNA methylation , MSI and serrated architecture .14,18,37 In this study there was a high frequency of BRAF mutation in conventional HPs ( 67 % ) as well as in SSAs ( 81 % ) . Previous reports have shown very similar results for BRAF mutation in SSA ,16 but higher frequencies of KRAS mutation and lower frequencies of BRAF mutation in HPs.12,16,38 As mentioned in Materials and methods , there had been selection of larger HPs in an earlier cell kinetic study involving the same material . Large HPs are more likely to include the subset described as ‘microvesicular’ , in which the columnar cells contain apical mucin droplets within small vesicles while goblet cells are rendered inconspicuous .25BRAF mutation occurs more frequently in the microvesicular variant of HP.16 By contrast , KRAS mutation occurs much more commonly in the goblet cell variant of HP , which is usually small , located in the left colon or rectum and deviates minimally from normal colorectal mucosa in terms of differentiation and architecture .16,25 The latter were under-represented in this series ( details not shown ) . dysplastic serrated polyps : MP and SA Serrated polyps with dysplasia , i .e . MPs and SAs , together comprised only 2 % of the overall consecutive series of 1250 polyps . While mutation of KRAS and BRAF was associated with conventional adenoma and SSA , respectively ( see above ) , BRAF and KRAS mutation occurred with similar frequency in both MPs ( 40 % and 50 % , respectively ) and SAs ( 33 % and 27 % , respectively ) . In the literature , the frequency of BRAF and KRAS mutation in MP or SA has ranged from 36 to 100 % and from 0 % to 60 % , respectively .12,16,39–42 These findings indicate that this subset of colorectal polyps is likely to be heterogeneous in terms of its molecular origins . These polyps were therefore reclassified according to their resemblance to HP or SSA ( Group A) ( Figure 1A,B,E,F) or to conventional adenoma ( Group B) ( Figure 1C,D) . Particular histological features among the Group A polyps were : marked serration , a papillary or villous architecture , a relatively abundant eosinophilic cytoplasm , columnar cells with apical mucin droplets , nuclei that were enlarged , ovoid , vesicular and contained a prominent nucleolus , and adjacent non-dysplastic serrated polyp . Particular histological features among the Group B polyps were : some glandular serration , frequent villous change and epithelial dysplasia that appeared adenomatous ( cytoplasmic basophilia and nuclei that were elongated , pseudostratified and hyperchromatic without a prominent nucleolus ) . Importantly , BRAF mutation occurred more frequently among Group A polyps ( P < 0.03 ) , whereas there was a trend for KRAS to be more frequent among Group B polyps ( P = 0.06 ) . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** In summary , MPs and SAs account for only about 2 % of colorectal polyps . Nevertheless , those serrated polyps with dysplasia show frequent mutation of either KRAS or BRAF and frequent loss of expression of MGMT ( particularly MP ) . Additionally , four of 25 ( 16 % ) showed high-grade dysplasia and in three of these there was concordant aberrant nuclear expression of p53 . Along with SSAs , these rare polyps may serve as the precursors of sporadic CRCs with BRAF mutation and DNA methylation ( with and without DNA MSI) and a subset of CRCs with KRAS mutation . Their malignant potential is explained by the accumulation of genetic alterations that may in turn depend upon the inactivation of the DNA repair gene MGMT.28 The importance of these ‘fusion ’ polyps as cancer precursors may be under-appreciated because critical rate-limiting changes governing malignant transition , particularly in association with loss of function of MLH1 of p53 , occur rapidly and can rarely be ‘caught in the act’ . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** Methods Patients A large colorectal cancer family ( Figure 1 ) with a recently identified mutation in the MLH1 gene ( c.1046dupT , p.Pro350fs ) was studied . Nine family members are affected with colorectal cancer . Another two family members are affected with polyps and three cases with skin cancer ( non-specified ) and one case with endometrium cancer ( non-specified ) are seen as well . Peripheral blood lymphocytes were collected from the family members . DNA was extracted using standard procedures . A total of thirteen family members were genotyped on Affymetrix GeneChip Human Mapping 10K 2.0 SNP arrays . The arrays were processed according to the instructions of the manufacturer . The mean SNP call rate was 96.3 % (89.0%-98.5 % ) . The study was approved by the Medical Ethical Committee of the LUMC ( protocol P01-019 ) . Workflow We processed the data according to the following workflow : 1 ) First , the genotype data were generated by GeneChip DNA Analysis Software ( GDAS ) from Affymetrix . 2 ) These genotype data were combined with the pedigree and the marker information in Alohomora . 3 ) In this program the uninformative SNPs were removed as well . 4 ) To be able to perform linkage analysis in the desired program , the output files ( in Merlin-format ) of Alohomora were by Mega2 converted to the proper format . 5 ) Mega2 also removed the Mendelian inconsistent errors . 6 ) The files were then ready to perform parametric linkage analysis using 2 flanking markers in MENDEL ; affected-only analysis as well as parametric linkage analysis using liability classes was performed . 7 ) Based on the second analysis , regions of interest were defined that were further tested for Mendelian consistent errors and 8 ) possible linkage disequilibrium was removed in SNPLINK. 9 ) Multipoint parametric linkage analysis using the liability classes was then performed in Simwalk2 for the ROIs and 10 ) finally , the haplotypes were inferred in Simwalk2 . Data formatting and quality control Genotype data of the individual family members were generated using GeneChip DNA Analysis Software ( GDAS ) from Affymetrix . In the Alohomora program [32 ] the pedigree information , allele frequencies and map position of the SNPs were combined with the genotype data generated by GDAS. The uninformative SNPs in this pedigree , that show either only A alleles and No Calls or only B alleles and No Calls , were removed from further analysis by Alohomora . The data files were exported in Merlin format . Subsequently , in Mega2 [33] these Alohomora files were converted into the appropriate format for the programs used for linkage analysis , i .e . either the Mendel 5 format or the SimWalk2 format . Mendelian inconsistent errors were removed from analysis with Mega2 by setting all genotypes of these SNPs to unknown . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** Results HLA class I , β2m and APM component expression In order to compare the expression of HLA class I in sporadic MSI-H and MSS right sided tumors ( RS T ) and HNPCC MSI-H cases , we used an antibody panel recognizing monomorphic determinants expressed on HLA class I heavy chains , β2m and APM components ( Figure 1 ) . In total , we identified loss of HLA class I expression in about 34.6 % of the RST and 42.7 % of the HNPCC cases . The frequency of alterations differed significantly between the sporadic MSS and MSI-H RST. The lack of HLA class I expression was more frequent in MSI-H sporadic cases than in MSS cases ( p < 0.0001 ) , as it was 16.7 % in the latter group , but 60.6 % in the former ( Table 2 ) . Subsequently , we have investigated the frequency of a concomitant loss of HLA class I expression with that of either the β2m molecule or of any APM component . In the sporadic subset , loss of HLA class I expression was more often associated with that of one of the APM components , occurring in about 37 % of HLA-negative tumors regardless of their mismatch repair status ( Table 2 ) . β2m loss was only found in one HLA class I negative MSI-H sporadic tumor ( case 65 ) that interestingly also presented loss of the APM molecules TAP2 , Calreticulin and Tapasin ( Figure 2 ) . In contrast , loss of HLA class I expression in HNPCC cases was more frequently associated with that of β2m ( Table 2 ) , as it was found in 46.9 % of the HLA class I-negative tumors . In contrast loss of any APM component was observed in only 6 % of these cases ( h38 , h49 ) which also showed loss of β2m expression . In sporadic RST , the simultaneous loss of more than one APM molecule per case was frequent ( Figure 2 ) . Only 3 out of 10 cases lost a single APM component . The TAP2 molecule was most frequently lost ( 6 cases ) , followed by TAP1 , Tapasin and LMP2 ( 5 cases ) , Calreticulin ( 4 cases ) , LMP7 ( 2 cases ) , and Calnexin and ERp57 ( 1 case ) . Loss of the LPM10 protein was detected in neither sporadic RST nor HNPCC tumors . The HNPCC cases h38 and h49 lost the expression of TAP2 and LMP7 respectively . LOH and frameshift analysis Polymorphic markers around the classical HLA genes ( A , B and C) , TAP 1 and TAP2 genes were used to study LOH and reveal possible chromosomal aberrations that could relate to loss of HLA class I expression ( Figure 5A ) . In HNPCC cases , LOH analysis was only performed around the HLA genes since loss of the TAP1 and TAP2 proteins was rarely associated with HLA class I loss . LOH was more frequent in the MSS tumors ( 50 % ) than in the MSI-H sporadic ( 20 % ) and HNPCC ( 6 % ) tumors with loss of HLA class I expression ( P < 0.05 ) ( Figure 3 , 4) . Furthermore , the patterns of LOH in the MSS cases might indicate loss of the entire 6p21.3 region , in contrast to the MSI-H cases ( hereditary and sporadic forms ) where LOH seems to be limited . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** Discussion Abnormalities in HLA class I cell surface expression are commonly observed in tumors and are interpreted as a mechanism by which tumor cells evade the host immune system [1] . In colorectal cancer , especially in MSI-H tumors , the high degree of lymphocytic infiltrate in some cases may suggest an active immune response during tumor development [41,42] . Moreover , MSI-H tumors might cause increased immune reactivity as a consequence of the high amounts of aberrant frameshift peptides they generate [8,18] . A selective pressure by CTLs upon these tumors would favor the outgrowth of tumor cells that lost HLA class I expression at the cell surface allowing them to surpass the action of the immune system . Applying immunohistochemistry on tissue arrays , we compared HLA class I expression in both sporadic RST ( MSI-H and MSS sub-groups ) and HNPCC tumors . RST were chosen because of the high percentage of MSI-H cases in this specific tumor type [43] . Indeed , immunohistochemical staining with mAb showed that HLA class I loss was frequent in the MSI-H cases analyzed when compared to their MSS counterpart . This finding supports the hypothesis that MSI-H tumors face greater selective pressure to lose HLA class I expression , as described by Kloor et al[8] . However , we have shown for the first time that distinct molecular mechanisms underlie HLA class I loss in sporadic MSI-H and HNPCC colon cancers . In the latter , HLA class I loss was preferentially associated with that of β2m , while in the former HLA class I loss was associated with that of one or more APM components ( p < 0.0001 ) . We investigated the genetic abnormalities underlying the HLA class I loss of expression . They included LOH on chromosome region 6p21.3 ( encompassing HLA class I and TAP genes ) , mutations in APM components and mutations in β2m . Loss of heterozygosity at 6p21.3 was most prevalent in MSS tumors . This is consistent with the observation that these tumors frequently possess gross chromosomal aberrations and are often aneuploid [13] . Moreover , since LOH events in MSS tumors normally comprise large areas of a chromosome , LOH on 6p21 might not be a direct consequence of selective pressure directed to the loss of HLA expression but instead to other genes within the same chromosomal region . The general absence of LOH in MSI-H tumors suggests that this is not the major mechanism by which the cells abrogate HLA class I expression . The genome 's coding regions contain multiple microsatellite repeats , which are considered hotspots for mutations in mismatch repair-deficient tumors [43] . Such repeats are also present within the exons of the APM components , β2m , HLA-A and HLA-B genes . In about half of the MSI-H cases , loss of expression of HLA class I was concordant with the detection of one or more mutations in these genes . We have discovered novel mutations in the antigen presenting machinery genes ; Tapasin , Erp57 , Calreticulin and Calnexin in colorectal cancer . Previous reports associated the loss of HLA class I expression in MSI-H tumors with defects on β2m molecule [7,9] . However , the authors did not distinguish the sporadic/hereditary nature of the tumors that were studied . We cannot exclude that the MSI-H cases included in these studies were mainly HNPCC tumors . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** Dietary fat and risk of colon and rectal cancer with aberrant MLH1 expression , or genes Abstract Objective To investigate baseline fat intake and the risk of colon and rectal tumors lacking MLH1 ( mutL homolog 1 , colon cancer , nonpolyposis type 2 ) repair gene expression and harboring mutations in the APC (adenomatous polyposis coli ) tumor suppressor gene and in the KRAS (v-Ki-ras2 Kirsten rat sarcoma viral oncogene homolog ) oncogene . Methods After 7.3 years of follow-up of the Netherlands Cohort Study ( n = 120,852 ) , adjusted incidence rate ratios ( RR ) and 95 % confidence intervals ( CI) were computed , based on 401 colon and 130 rectal cancer patients . Results Total , saturated and monounsaturated fat were not associated with the risk of colon or rectal cancer , or different molecular subgroups . There was also no association between polyunsaturated fat and the risk of overall or subgroups of rectal cancer . Linoleic acid , the most abundant polyunsaturated fatty acid in the diet , was associated with increased risk of colon tumors with only a KRAS mutation and no additional truncating APC mutation or lack of MLH1 expression ( RR = 1.41 , 95 % CI 1.18–1.69 for one standard deviation ( i .e . , 7.5 g/day ) increase in intake , p-trend over the quartiles of intake <0.001 ) . Linoleic acid intake was not associated with risk of colon tumors without any of the gene defects , or with tumors harboring aberrations in either MLH1 or APC. Conclusion Linoleic acid intake is associated with colon tumors with an aberrant KRAS gene , but an intact APC gene and MLH1 expression , suggesting a unique etiology of tumors with specific genetic aberrations . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** These observations and hypotheses prompted us to investigate the associations between the intake of total fat and different types of fat and the risk of colon and rectal tumors lacking MLH1 expression and with and without APC gene mutations , two early events in colorectal tumorigenesis , independent of tumors harboring KRAS gene mutations . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** Materials and methods Study population The prospective NLCS was initiated in The Netherlands in September 1986 . The study design has been described in detail elsewhere [23] . Briefly , at baseline a total of 58,279 men and 62,573 women , between the ages of 55 and 69 years , completed a self-administered food frequency and lifestyle questionnaire . Incident cancer cases are identified by monitoring of the entire cohort for cancer occurrence through annual record linkage to the National Cancer Registry (NCR ) , consisting of nine regional cancer registries throughout The Netherlands , and to PALGA , a nationwide network and registry of histo - and cytopathology [24] . The NCR and PALGA together provide a near 100 % coverage of the 204 municipalities included in the NLCS. Accumulation of person-time in the cohort was estimated through biennial vital status follow-up of a subcohort of 3,500 men and women who were randomly selected after baseline exposure measurement [24] . Cases with prevalent cancer other than non-melanoma skin cancer were excluded from the subcohort , which left 3,346 men and women for analysis next to all colorectal cancer cases from the entire cohort . No subcohort members were lost to follow-up . A flow diagram of subcohort members and patients on whom the analyses are based is given in Fig . 1 . Fig . 1Flow diagram of the number of subjects on whom the final statistical analyses were based . aNetherlands Cancer Registry . bPathologisch Anatomisch Landelijk Geautomatiseerd Archief . cPatients with rectosigmoid tumors were not included in the analyses . dmutL homolog 1 , colon cancer , nonpolyposis type 2. eAdenomatous polyposis coli . fMutation cluster region . gv-Ki-ras2 Kirsten rat sarcoma viral oncogene homolog . hPatients with rectal tumors were not included in the analysis according to MLH1 expression Flow diagram of the number of subjects on whom the final statistical analyses were based . aNetherlands Cancer Registry . bPathologisch Anatomisch Landelijk Geautomatiseerd Archief . cPatients with rectosigmoid tumors were not included in the analyses . dmutL homolog 1 , colon cancer , nonpolyposis type 2. eAdenomatous polyposis coli . fMutation cluster region . gv-Ki-ras2 Kirsten rat sarcoma viral oncogene homolog . hPatients with rectal tumors were not included in the analysis according to MLH1 expression The first 2.3 years of follow up were excluded because of possible preclinical disease affecting exposure status and because of incomplete nationwide coverage of PALGA alone ( i .e . , not in combination with the NCR ) in some of the municipalities included in the NLCS. Within this period , 83 subcohort members deceased or were diagnosed with cancer other than non-melanoma skin cancer , leaving 3,263 subcohort members for analysis . From 1989 to 1994 , 929 incident cases with histologically confirmed colorectal cancer were identified within the entire cohort , of whom 819 could also be linked to a PALGA report of the lesion . The PALGA reports were used to identify and locate tumor tissues from eligible colorectal cancer patients in 54 pathology laboratories throughout the Netherlands . Cancers were classified according to site as follows , colon : cecum through sigmoid colon ( ICD-O codes 153:0 , 153.1 , 153.2 , 153.3 , 153.4 , 153.5 , 153.6 , 153.7 ) , proximal colon ( ICD-O codes 153.0, 153.1 , 153.4 , 153.5 , 153.6) , distal colon ( ICD-O codes 153.2 , 153,3 , `53.7 ) , rectosigmoid ( ICD-O code 154.0) , and rectum ( ICD-O code 154.1 ) . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** This still does not satisfy our third query , i .e . , why are the associations specifically confined to this subgroup of colon cancer patients whose tumors are characterized by activating KRAS mutations , and not truncating APC mutations or lack of MLH1 expression ? It is speculative , but plausible , that when KRAS is the only one of the three genes affected , the mutation may more likely be the result of exogenous exposure , for example a relatively high linoleic acid intake . In contrast , when a KRAS mutation co-occurs with a mutation in APC or , although more rarely , in addition to a defective MLH1 , these other early gene defects also had a role in tumor formation and may have resulted in a mutator phenotype leading to mutations in other genes ( such as the KRAS gene ) irrespective of exogenous factors . Since there is no information on the timing of genetic aberrations in this type of human studies , we cannot verify this with our data . Aberrations in other genes , not available for this study , but possibly involved in early tumorigenesis of colorectal cancer , could not be accounted for in analyses and may have influenced results . However , a recent systematic sequence analysis of 13,023 exons in individual colorectal cancers showed that the prevalence of mutations other than in APC , KRAS and TP53 is rather low [44] , and mutations in TP53 is not an early event in colorectal carcinogenesis . Finally , results are based on relatively small numbers of patients , especially in the reference group of polyunsaturated fat or linoleic acid intake ( four patients , see Table 4) , and point estimates of RRs for quartiles of intake of polyunstaturated fat or linoleic acid should therefore , be interpreted cautiously . Nevertheless , as discussed previously , the association appears to be robust when regarding the results for one standard deviation increase in linoleic acid intake ( based on a total of 65 patients ) . Therefore , Breivik and Glaudernack’s hypothesis for distinct carcinogens to exert their effect on two proposed types of genetic instability , i .e . , microsatellite instability and chromosomal instability [16] , may be extended to the potential effect of carcinogens on more specific genetic pathways to colorectal tumorigenesis , as for example the KRAS mutated pathway . The data from this large prospective cohort study suggest that linoleic acid intake is strongly associated with colon tumors with an aberrant KRAS gene , but an intact APC gene and MLH1 expression . Verification in other studies is warranted . Possibly , tumors revealing the involvement of distinct genetic pathways on the basis of specific genetic aberrations , may have a unique etiology . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** Discussion We report the analysis of the combined miRNA/mRNA expression for the discrimination of MSI-H versus MSS human colon cancer . Because colorectal tumors characterized by MSI are distinct from MSS tumors in many molecular aspects , such the association with the methylator phenotype , which is responsible for MLH1 methylation , the higher frequency of BRAF mutations and the lower frequencies of KRAS , APC and TP53 mutations , MSI and MSS colon cancers represent tumors with a different molecular background . Thus , it is reasonable that their overall gene expression pattern ( including both mRNAs and microRNAs ) might be affected by any of the above mentioned mechanisms . Indeed , our analyses identified 14 miRNAs and 451 mRNAs differentially expressed between the two genetically distinct colon cancer classes . These results not only indicate the existence of a mRNA/miRNA gene expression profile able to distinguish MSS versus MSI colon cancers , but also indicate that the combination of miRNA/mRNA gene expression data can distinguish microsatellite instability status of human colorectal cancers better than each RNA class independently , suggesting that the combination of mRNA and miRNA expression may potentially represent a general approach for improving characterization and classification of bio-molecular and possibly clinical traits associated with human cancer . We also examined the prediction power of published lists of genes differentially expressed between MSI-H and MSS colorectal cancers [34-36] against our data set . Two published lists describe differentially expressed genes ( 100 genes in the report from Di Pietro et al . 2005 [36] and 542 genes from Banerjea et al . 2004 [35] ) and one is a short list of predictors ( 9 genes in Kruhoffer et al . 2005 [34] ) . Although these studies were all performed on Affymetrix platforms , they generated only partially overlapping results . The list of genes from Di Pietro et al . [36] was the one that better correlated with our results . Twenty two of their 100 genes were present in our list of differentially expressed genes and , for all the remaining genes , expression tendency completely matched our data . A cluster analysis of our data set using the 100 genes from the Di Pietro 's paper could generate a good , although not perfect , separation between MSS versus MSI-H tumors and performed well in the prediction of our samples ( 36 of 39 samples were correctly classified using the SVM prediction ) ( data not shown ) . These results indicate that a similar set of genes emerged as differentially expressed between MSS and MSI-H colon cancers in the Di Pietro 's and our studies , with discrepancies possibly due to small statistical differences . Discrepancies between results obtained with different microarray platforms are not uncommon and are mainly determined by differences in microarray probe sequences used to detect mRNA transcripts [37] and in algorithms used for predictor genes identification . Hence , the parallel between Di Pietro 's and our results is significant given that data were generated using a different set of samples and a different microarray platform , and suggests that the commonly identified set of genes may represent the most significant differences between MSI-H and MSS colon cancers ( Additional file 6 ) . Unfortunately , data sets from published reports were not available for cross confirmation of our list of predictive genes on published microarray data . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** Conclusion This report provides the first study on microRNA expression in MSI versus MSS colon cancer . We identified microRNAs that are differentially expressed between these two classes of tumors ; moreover , the addition of microRNAs in the molecular classifier improves the separation between MSI and MSS cancer samples , suggesting that the mRNA/miRNA combination could provide an improved stratification of tumor-associated characters . Interestingly , the most prominent class of differentially expressed miRNAs includes various members of the oncogenic miR-17-92 family , suggesting that these microRNAs have a role in bio-pathologic characteristics that distinguish MSS versus MSI colon cancers . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** Introduction Over the past ten years , aberrant DNA methylation has been recognized as one of the most common molecular abnormalities in breast cancer [1,2] . A large body of evidence implicates potential hypermethylation of CpG islands in the loss of expression of a variety of crucial genes . Tumor-suppressor genes with aberrant methylation in breast cancers include ARHI [3,4] , RASSF1A [5] , HIN-1 [6] , the retinoic acid receptor II gene (RARβ2 ) [7] , hMLH1 [8] , 14-3-3 σ [9] , RIZ1 [10] , p16 [11] , the E-cadherin gene [12] , PTEN [13] , and BRCA1 [14] . Methylation in breast cancer has been related to clinical and pathologic characteristics evident at presentation and clinical outcomes . A higher prevalence of HIN-1 and RAR β2 methylation was found in the lymph nodes , bone , brain , and lung metastases than the primary tumor [15] . Widschwendter and colleagues [16] reported that the methylation of certain genes was associated with hormone receptor ( HR ) status , in addition to the response to treatment with tamoxifen . A high prevalence of PGR , HSD17B4 , and CDH13 methylation has been associated with HER-2/neu-positive breast cancer [17] . Methylation-specific PCR ( MSP) is a sensitive assay used to detect methylation and analyze the methylation status of genes of interest . However , problems inherent to this assay ( such as those caused by the use of different primers for the methylated or unmethylated alleles , the gel-based data analysis system used , and difficulties in quantitation ) have caused frequent false-positive results in tissue-sample analyses . A new technique , pyrosequencing , has been adapted for use in highly sensitive and quantitative methylation analyses [18,19] . Pyrosequencing methylation analysis is a modification of the combined bisulfite restriction analysis ( COBRA ) that compares favorably with COBRA in sensitivity , specificity , and robustness [18] . Tost and colleagues also confirmed that the pyrosequencing technique is quantitative , amenable to the analysis of bisulfite-treated DNA derived from paraffin-embedded tissue samples , highly reproducible , and accurate [19] . Bisulfite pyrosequencing has been used in clinical trials of hypomethylating drug treatment and provides accurate and reliable results [20] . To investigate methylation profiles in breast cancer cells , we used bisulfite pyrosequencing to screen 12 known tumor-suppressor genes in 90 pairs of breast cancers and normal tissues . Although all 12 genes had been reported to exhibit hypermethylation in a fraction of breast cancer cases , our assays provided a comprehensive survey of their methylation status and confirmed that five genes could be useful in defining a methylation profile in breast cancer cells . Our findings also suggest that two panels of methylation profiles correlated , either positively or negatively , to HR status . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** Statistical methods and analysis In the studied cohort , adjacent normal breast tissue was taken from each of 90 patients during surgery . Taking advantage of paired normal/tumor samples in this study , we chose the value of normal samples as the reference . If using the sample mean plus two times the standard deviation of the pooled normal samples ( and a minimum of 10 % methylation ) as a cut-off point , there is > 97 % probability that the methylation level for a normal tissue will be lower than the cut-off point . It is reasonable to assume that a value larger than the cut-off point is likely to be abnormal ( or positive ) . Panels of genes , that is to say , HIN-1/RASSF1A and RIL/CDH13 were considered positive if both markers in each panel were positive . Descriptive analyses were performed first for exploratory purposes . Pair-wise scatter plots are presented to show the correlations among the genes methylated . Heat maps were plotted to show levels of gene expression or methylation using hierarchical clustering to visually represent the association of different genes or samples by histopathologic tumor characteristics ( ERs , PRs , and HER-2/neu ) . Chi-square or Fisher 's exact test were used to assess the dependence between two categorical variables . Pearson 's correlation coefficient was used to assess the relationship between two continuous variables . The Wilcoxon rank-sum test was used to compare either continuous or categorical variables between two groups . Analysis of variance ( ANOVA ) was applied to compare the values of gene methylation with tumor characteristics . Multivariate logistic regression was used to assess the ability of various levels of gene methylation to predict the ER , PR , HR , or HER-2/neu status . All reported p values are two-sided and considered statistically significant if p < 0.05 . Analyses were performed using S-PLUS 2000 software ( Insightful Corp. , Seattle , WA , USA ) . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** Discussion Although a large body of evidence has demonstrated that aberrant DNA methylation has an important role in breast carcinogenesis , variation in the data is still a problem . In this study , we used bisulfite pyrosequencing to quantitate the methylation of 12 known tumor-suppressor genes in breast cancers . To avoid contamination with normal tissues , we isolated breast cancer cells by microdissection and compared levels of methylation with those in normal breast epithelial cells from the same patients . Bisulfite pyrosequencing provided sensitive and reproducible measurements . The variation between the different assays was < 6 % . Our data confirmed that RIL , HIN-1 , RASSF1A , CDH13 , and RARβ2 were frequently methylated in breast cancers but not in normal breast tissues . The other six genes were not highly methylated in breast cancers or methylated in either malignant and normal breast tissues ; ARHI , as an imprinted gene , has a different methylation status . All the inconsistencies indicate that these seven genes are unsuitable for methylation profile studies . In the past , methylation data have been correlated to clinical pathologic parameters , to clarify the role of methylation in breast carcinogenesis . Our most interesting finding was a correlation between gene methylation and the HR status . Methylation in breast cancer has already been connected to hormone regulation , but the correlation is not clear yet . Campan and colleagues [26] reviewed the DNA methylation profiles of breast , endometrial , ovarian , and proximal colon cancers but did not find evidence for global hormone-specific DNA methylation alterations . Widschwendter and colleagues [16] reported significant differences in the HR status between clusters of DNA methylation profiles . Their results suggested the existence of an interaction between DNA methylation and HR biology in breast cancer cells . In our own study , we found that the ER status was positively associated with the methylation of HIN-1 and RASSF1A but negatively correlated to the methylation of RIL. In addition , the PR status was positively associated with the methylation of HIN-1 and negatively associated with the methylation of CDH13 . Moreover , if data from the methylation of individual genes were combined into two panels , methylation of the HIN-1/RASSF1A panel strongly predicted the expression of ERs , PRs , and HRs and methylation of the RIL/CDH13 panel strongly predicted the negative expression of ERs , PRs , and HRs . The status of ERs , PRs , and HRs has been recognized as an important prognostic factor in patients with breast cancer , in addition to a predictive marker for the response to treatment with endocrine therapy . The presence of ERs and/or PRs is predictive of the response to treatment with the antiestrogen tamoxifen [27] . ER and PR expression patterns are heavily influenced by changes in the chromatin structure during transcription . Indeed , both the predominant mammalian DNA methyltransferase and histone deacetylases have crucial roles in maintaining transcriptionally repressive chromatin by forming suppressive complexes at replication foci [28] . Our current studies provide evidence that epigenetic changes are tightly connected with HR regulation in breast cancer . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** Tumors negatively stained for HCA2 and/or HC10 were stained for mismatch repair proteins MLH1 and PMS2 . MLH1 and PMS2 are deficient in sporadic MSI tumors . Therefore , the expression of these proteins was used to differentiate MSI and MSS rectal cancers . Tissue stromal cells , normal epithelium or lymph follicles served as positive internal controls when analyzing MLH1 , PMS2 expression . The expression of MLH1 and PMS2 was scored positive if tumor cells showed expression , and negative if tumor cells showed no expression of either MLH1 or PMS2 , provided that and tissue stromal cells did show expression , indicating microsatellite stable ( MSS) and microsatellite instable ( MSI) tumors , respectively [7] . Statistical analyses All analyses were performed with SPSS statistical software (version 12.0 for Windows , SPSS Inc , Chicago , USA ) . Mann– Whitney U, t test and χ2-tests were used to compare variables . Kaplan–Meier analyses were performed to analyze patient survival . The entry date for the survival analyses was the time of surgery of the primary tumor . Events for time to local recurrence , distant recurrence , cancer-specific survival , disease-free and overall survival were defined as follows : from time of surgery to time of local disease relapse ( for local recurrence ) , time of distant disease relapse ( for distant recurrence ) , time of disease relapse or death by disease ( for cancer specific survival ) , time of disease relapse or death ( for disease free survival ) and time of death , respectively ( for overall survival ) . Non-irradiated and irradiated patients were first separately analyzed in univariate analysis and second , variables with a P value of <0.10 in the univariate analyses were subjected to a multivariate analysis . Multivariate analysis was performed on the whole group of irradiated and non-irradiated patients with the following variables : HLA class I , randomization for radiotherapy , TNM and circumferential margin . Cox ’ regression analyses were used to calculate hazard ratios ( HR ) with 95 % confidence intervals ( CI) . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** Most rectal tumors have high numbers of tumor cells positive for HCA2 or HC10 Numbers ( N ) of patients are indicated with percentages shown in parentheses , showing : expression of HCA2 and HC10 in more than 50 % of the tumor cells ( high ) , expression in less than 50 % of the tumor cells ( low ) and total absence ( absence ) Examples of HCA2 and HC10 immunohistochemical staining of rectal tumors ; a–c HCA2 , d–f HC10 expression . a , d Expression of HLA class I in >50 % tumor cells ; b , e expression of HLA class I in <50 % tumor cells ; c , f epithelial cells show total absence for HCA2 or HC10 and only stromal and infiltrative cells show positive staining for HCA2 or HC10 ; Original magnification ×20 Analysis of HLA class I expression in rectal tumors Together , the results obtained with HCA2 and HC10 are expected to reflect HLA class I expression in rectal cancer . In a group of 64 tumors it was studied whether an additional staining for β2 m would better define HLA class I expression . The results of the addition of β2 m to HCA2 and HC10 were comparable to those obtained with HCA2 and HC10 , i .e . only 1 of 64 tumors was differently classified . Therefore , β2 m was not scored in the whole cohort and HLA class I expression was assessed by combining HCA2 and HC10 . A total of 406 ( 85 % ) irradiated and 445 ( 84 % ) non-irradiated tumors exhibited expression of at least one of the two markers showing >50 % positive staining of all tumor cells ( further referred to as ‘the HLA class I high expression group ’ ) . A total of 70 ( 15 % ) irradiated and 87 ( 16 % ) non-irradiated tumors showed reduced numbers ( ≤50 % ) of HLA class I positive tumor cells . Only 3 ( 0.6 % ) irradiated tumors and 8 ( 1.5 % ) non-irradiated tumors showed total loss of HLA class I ( negative for both HCA2 and HC10 ) . Survival results of patients with total absence of HLA class I on tumor cells did not show significant difference from patients with reduced numbers of HLA class I positive tumor cells . Therefore , these groups were combined and will be further referred to as ‘the HLA class I low-expression group’ . The complete results are shown in Table 2. The number of patients in the group of the HLA class I high-expression group and the HLA class I low-expression group was equally distributed between irradiated and non-irradiated tumors ( χ2 = 0.519 , P = 0.471 ) , indicating that irradiation had no effect on HLA class I expression in these patients . Table 2Expression of HLA class I in rectal cancer using HCA2 and HC10 antibodiesHCA2HC10HLA class IHigh ( N)Low + absence ( N)N ( %)IrradiatedHigh ( N)27037406 ( 85 % )Low + absence ( N)997070 ( 15 % ) Non-irradiatedHigh ( N)27732445 ( 84 % )Low + absence ( N)1368787 ( 16 % )Expression of results of HCA2 and HC10 staining in a cross table for numbers ( N ) of irradiated and non-irradiated patients ; expression of HCA2 and HC10 in more than 50 % of the tumor cells ( high ) versus expression in less than 50 % of the tumor cells ( low ) is shown . A significant correlation was noted between HCA2 and HC10 staining for both irradiated ( χ2 = 53.947 , P < 0.001 ) and non-irradiated patients ( χ2 = 61.257 , P < 0.001 ) . The right side of the table displays HLA class I expression estimated on HCA2 and HC10 expression . A total of 406 ( 85 % ) irradiated and 445 ( 84 % ) non-irradiated tumors exhibited expression of at least one of the two markers showing >50 % positive staining of all tumor cells . A total of 70 ( 15 % ) irradiated and 88 ( 16 % ) non-irradiated tumors showed reduced numbers ( ≤50 % ) of HLA class I positive tumor cells . The number of patients in the group of the HLA class I high expression group and the HLA class I low expression group was equally distributed between irradiated and non-irradiated tumors ( χ2 = 0.519 , P = 0.471 ) ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** Examples of Kaplan–Meier curves showing overall survival and cancer specific survival for irradiated and non-irradiated patients ( a–d ) . Kaplan–Meier curves for overall survival ( a , b ) and cancer specific survival ( c , d ) ; curves show prognosis for non-irradiated ( a , c ) and irradiated patients ( b , d ) for HLA class I expression in more than 50 % of the tumor cells ( high ) versus expression in less than 50 % of the tumor cells ( low ) . P value is based on univariate log rank analyses Both irradiated and non-irradiated patients with high expression of HLA class I have a better overall , and disease free survival Survival and recurrence rates indicated in percentages after 5-years of follow-up for non-irradiated and irradiated patients for HLA class I expression in more than 50 % of the tumor cells ( high ) versus expression in less than 50 % of the tumor cells ( low ) . P value is based on univariate log rank analyses for overall survival , disease free survival , cancer specific survival , local recurrence and distant recurrence * Statistical significant P values are in bold Multivariate analysis Multivariate analysis was performed to identify factors with independent prognostic significance and to calculate hazard ratios ( HR ) . Analyses included TNM , circumferential margin , randomization for preoperative radiotherapy and HLA class I expression ( low vs. high HLA class I positive tumor cells ) ( Table 5 ) . Advanced pathological ( TNM) stage and tumor-positive circumferential resection margins retained their strength as independent prognostic factors in these survival analyses . HLA class I expression showed independent prognostic value for overall survival and disease-free survival ( HR : 1.3 , P = 0.042 and HR : 1.4 , P = 0.006 , respectively ) , but not for cancer-specific survival . Table 5Multivariate analysis confirms independent better overall , and disease free survival for rectal cancer patients with high expression of HLA class IOverall survivalDisease free survivalCancer specific survivalHR (95 % CI) P valueHR (95 % CI) P valueHR (95 % CI) P valueHLA High10.04210.00610.653 Low1.3 ( 1.0–1.6)1.4 ( 1.1–1.8)1.1 ( 0.8–1.5)Randomization TME10.63210.21410.282 TME + RT1 ( 0.8–1.2)0.9 ( 0.7–1.1)1.1 ( 0.9–1.5)TNM I111 II2.2 ( 1.7–3.0)<0.0012.1 ( 1.6–2.8 )<0.0013.5 ( 2.0–6.1 )<0.001 III3.1 ( 2.4–4.1 )<0.0013.1 ( 2.3–4.0)<0.0019.0 ( 5.4–14.9 )<0.001 IV11.8 ( 8.1–17.1 )<0.001––50.3 ( 28.5–89.1 )<0.001CRM Negative1<0.0011<0.0011<0.001 Positive1.3 ( 1.1–1.5)1.8 ( 1.4–2.2)1.3 ( 1.1–1.5)Multivariate analysis for cancer specific , overall and disease free survival was performed to identify factors with independent prognostic significance and to calculate hazard ratios ( HR ) with 95 % confidence intervals ( CI) shown in parentheses . HLA class I expression in more than 50 % of the tumor cells ( high ) versus expression in less than 50 % of the tumor cells ( low ) , total mesorectal excision ( TME) , Radiotherapy (RT ) ; circumferential margin ( CRM ) ; P value is based on Cox ’ regression analyses* Statistical significant P values and HR are in bold ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** Case presentation In November 2006 , a 56-year old woman ( III-1 in pedigree , Figure 1 ) visited our clinic for genetic counseling because she was worried about the many cases of cancer that had occurred in her family . The direct reason for her visit was the recent death of her 39-year old son ( IV-1 ) with a symptomatic , and already metastasized , rectal adenocarcinoma . The counselee had been diagnosed with an endometrial and a sigmoid carcinoma at age 53- and 54-years old , respectively . She reported her overwhelming family history , which easily fulfilled the criteria that enable selection of families that are at risk for Lynch syndrome ( Table 1 ) . Subsequent IHC-analysis on archival tumor material of her sigmoid carcinoma demonstrated abrogation of the MSH2 and MSH6 proteins , which is typically associated with a germline MSH2 mutation . Multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification ( MLPA ) , in DNA extracted from peripheral lymphocytes , identified an entire MSH2 gene deletion ( exons 1–16 ) and confirmed the diagnosis of Lynch syndrome . Pedigree of a Lynch syndrome family , showing organ systems and age of diagnosis , see legend . Year , year of diagnosis/diagnoses ; asterisk , anamnestically obtained information ; urinary tract , urothelial carcinoma of renal pelvis or ureter ; skin , keratoacanthoma ; asc. , ascending colon ; transv. , transverse colon ; desc. , descending colon . In retrospect , some doctors had indeed signaled noteworthy features in this family . First , in 1979 , a gynecologist who was treating patient II-6 consulted a colleague about the very early onset of endometrial carcinoma . His colleague reassured him at that time that the age at presentation , 41 years old , was not in fact very rare . Second , in 2005 , a gastroenterologist spoke of possible HNPCC in patient III-2 , who was diagnosed with carcinoma of the papilla of Vater after she had developed three separate colon carcinomas , but no further action was taken . Third , in 2006 , an oncologist treating patient IV-1 suggested MSI testing on tumor material after his mother ( III-1 ) had expressed her concern about the family history , but did not proceed . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** Discussion This family is a fine example of the plethora of tumors that may occur in Lynch syndrome and demonstrates why the term Lynch syndrome is preferred nowadays over HNPCC ( hereditary non-polyposis colorectal cancer ) , which only refers to CRC. The organ involvement in this family included seven organ systems : colon , uterus , skin , stomach , urinary tract , pancreas and hepatobiliary system . The manifestation of keratoacanthoma in this family enabled a sub-classification to Muir Torre syndrome ( MTS ) . MTS is a variant of Lynch syndrome and germline mutations in the three main Lynch syndrome genes ( MLH1 , MSH2 and MSH6 ) have been identified in MTS families [7,8] . Keratoacanthoma should be regarded as one of the tumors that lie in the constellation of Lynch syndrome but their manifestation could depend on modifier genes and/or environmental factors . This case report shows a considerable delay in diagnosing Lynch syndrome which negatively influenced the management of many family members . None of the family members underwent presymptomatic screening on the basis of the family history , while clinical surveillance has been shown to decrease mortality in Lynch syndrome families [9] . Remarkably , in none of the medical reports we obtained was a family history reported extending further than first-degree relatives . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** Conclusion This family clearly illustrates a lack of awareness about a hereditary tumor syndrome among doctors as well as patients . In general , it is prudent to be aware of classic hereditary features , like young age at diagnosis , multiple tumors in multiple organs and a positive family history , and to refer suspected cases for genetic counseling . More specifically , these features can be found in the Amsterdam and Bethesda criteria ( Table 1 ) . Subsequently , the identification of at-risk persons will optimize the timing and efficiency that surveillance and treatment are carried out . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** The DNA sequence of each microsatellite in the tumor was compared with that of the matched normal mucosa . It was considered as unstable if there was an absence , shortening or prolongation of the DNA sequence . MSI-L was defined as 1 unstable microsatellite out of 5 , while MSI-H was defined as more than 1 unstable microsatellite out of 5 . If the tumor microsatellites were identical to those of the normal tissue , the microsatellite was considered as stable ( MSS) . For the MSI-L CRCs , BAT-40 and MYCL were detected . If either of these two markers was unstable , this colorectal sample was considered as MSI-H. Immunohistochemical staining for MSH2 , MSH6 and MLH1 on TMAs The CRC microarray was constructed as previously described [8,9] . Briefly , formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissue blocks of CRC resections were cut from the donor block and stained with hematoxylin-eosin ( HE) . These slides were used to guide the sampling from morphologically representative regions of the tissues . A tissue array instrument ( Beecher Instruments , Silver Spring , MD) was used to create holes in a recipient paraffin block and to acquire tissue cores from the donor block by a thin-walled needle with an inner diameter of 1.0 mm , held in an X-Y precision guide . The cylindrical samples were retrieved from the selected regions in the donors and extruded directly into the recipient blocks with defined array coordinates . Three cores were obtained from each sample . After the construction of the array block , multiple 4-mm thick sections were cut with a microtome using an adhesive-coated tape sectioning system ( Instrumedics , Hackensack , NJ) . In our analysis the rates of lost cases attributable to tissue damage were less than 5 % for the different markers . TMA slides were stained with MLH1 antibodies ( 1:50 dilution , No. sc-494 , Santa Cruz , Biotrade Ltd , Shanghai , China ) and MSH2 ( 1:100 dilution , No. sc-581 , Santa Cruz , Biotrade Ltd , Shanghai , China ) . IHC staining for samples on the tissue microarray was carried out using Envision ready-to-use methods ( Dako Diagnostics , Zug , Switzerland ) . Slides were deparaffinized in xylene and rehydrated through graded concentrations of ethanol to distilled water , and endogenous peroxidase activity was blocked by incubation with 30 mL/L H2O2 in methanol for 10 min at room temperature . Then sections were submitted to antigen retrieval in a pressure cooker containing 0.01 mmol/L natrium citricium buffer for 10 min . Slides were subsequently incubated in 100 mL/L normal goat serum for 20 min at room temperature . Sections were permeabilized in PBS-Triton and incubated overnight with primary antibody at 4°C. The pathologist and technician who reviewed the immunostaining of the tissue samples were blinded to the patient 's information . Stained slides and individual cores were scored as either positive ( showing nuclear staining in at least some tumor cells ) or negative . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** Regarding the location of gene mutations , we found that 3 patients bore mutations in exon 7 of MSH2 , 2 had mutations in exon 12 of MSH2 , 1 had a mutation in exon 2 of MSH6 , and 2 had mutations in exon 5 of MSH6 . No MLH1 mutations were found in our cohort . All 8 mutations were considered pathogenic mutations . The mutation of C1886 A > G , C1668 C > T was reported as a pathogenic mutation previously [22-25] . However , the other six mutations have not been reported in other publications and are likely to be novel mutations . We also attempted to screen for the presence of all these mutations in 50 randomly selected patients in the MSS group and in 50 normal people . The result of this screen was negative , and all these CRCs with mutations stained negatively for MSH2 or/and MSH6 , indicating that these 6 mutations may be pathogenic mutations but not polymorphisms . In terms of the clinical features of the 8 cases with mutations , only 1 conformed to the Amsterdam criteria II ; all the others did not have any family history of malignancy . Moreover , the median age was 59 with 4 patients that were older than 60 years old . One limitation of this study is that it is a single-center study with a relatively small sample size . Therefore , the results of this study need to be confirmed by a well designed multi-center study , which is one of our ongoing studies in China . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** Background The colon is composed of a dynamic and self-renewing epithelium that turns over every three to five days . It is generally accepted that at the base of the crypt , variable numbers ( between 1 and 16 ) of slowly dividing , stationary , pluripotent stem cells give rise to more rapidly proliferating , transient amplifying cells . These cells differentiate chiefly into post-mitotic columnar colonocytes , mucin-secreting goblet cells , and enteroendocrine cells as they migrate from the crypt base to the surface where they are sloughed into the lumen [1] . Several signaling pathways , notably Wnt , Tgfβ , Bmp , Hedgehog and Notch , play pivotal roles in the control of proliferation and differentiation of the developing and adult colon [2] . Their perturbation , via mutation or epigenetic modification , occurs in human colorectal cancer ( CRC ) and the instillation of these changes via genetic engineering in mice confers a correspondingly high risk for neoplasia in the mouse models . Moreover , tumor cell de-differentiation correlates with key tumor features , such as tumor progression rates , invasiveness , drug resistance and metastatic potential [3-5] . A variety of scientific and organizational obstacles make it a challenging proposition to undertake large-scale comparisons of human cancer to the wide range of genetically engineered mouse models . To evaluate the potential of this approach to provide integrated views of the molecular basis of cancer risk , tumor development and malignant progression , we have undertaken a comparative analysis of a variety of individually developed mouse colon tumor models ( reviewed in [6,7] ) to human CRC. The ApcMin/+ ( multiple intestinal neoplasia ) mouse model harbors a germline mutation in the Apc tumor suppressor gene and exhibits multiple tumors in the small intestine and colon [8] . A major function of APC is to regulate the canonical WNT signaling pathway as part of a β-catenin degradation complex . Loss of APC results in a failure to degrade β-catenin , which instead enters the nucleus to act as a transcriptional co-activator with the lymphoid enhancer factor/T-cell factor ( LEF/TCF ) family of transcription factors [9] . The localization of β-catenin within the nucleus indicates activated canonical WNT signaling . In addition to germline APC mutations that occur in persons with familial adenomatous polyposis coli ( FAP ) and ApcMin/+ mice , loss of functional APC and activation of canonical WNT signaling occurs in more than 80 % of human sporadic CRCs [10] . Similar to the ApcMin/+ model , tumors in the azoxymethane ( AOM) carcinogen model , which occur predominantly in the colon [11] , have signaling alterations marked by activated canonical WNT signaling . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** Results Strategy for cross-species analysis Our strategy for the characterization of mouse models of human CRC ( Figure 1 ) relies on gene expression differences and relative patterning across a range of mouse CRC models , normal mouse colon developmental stages , and human CRCs . Achieving this comparison was facilitated by the use of reference RNAs from whole-mouse and normal adult colon reference RNAs for both mouse and human measurements . Mouse tumor samples were profiled on cDNA microarrays using the embryonic day ( E)17.5 whole mouse reference RNA identical to that used previously [15 ] to examine embryonic mouse colon gene expression dynamics from E13.5 to E18.5 , during which time the primitive , undifferentiated , pseudo-stratified colonic endoderm becomes a differentiated , single-layered epithelium . This strategy allowed us to construct a gene expression database of mouse colon tumors in which gene expression levels of the tumors could be referenced , ranked , and statistically compared to an average value among the tumors or to embryonic or adult colon gene expression levels on a per-gene basis . First , we compared the four models with each other , then to mouse colon development , and finally to human CRCs using gene ortholog mapping ( Figure 1 ) . Stratification of murine colon tumor models by localization of β-catenin and plan for analysis . Colon tumors from four etiologically distinct mouse models of CRC were subjected to microarray gene expression profiling . The gene expression profiles from the different mouse model tumors were compared and contrasted to each other , as well as to those from embryonic mouse colon development and 100 human CRCs . Mouse colon tumors partition into classes reflecting differential canonical WNT signaling activity To discover gene expression programs underlying differences between etiologically distinct mouse models of CRC , gene expression level values for each transcript in each tumor sample was set to its ratio relative to its median across the series of tumor models . Using non-parametric statistical analyses , 1,798 cDNA transcripts were identified as differentially expressed among the four mouse models of CRC. Five major gene patterns were identified using K-means clustering ( clusters C1-C5 ; Figure 2a , top ) . Genes belonging to these clusters were strongly associated with annotated gene function categories ( see Table 1 for detailed biological descriptions and associations ) . For example , cluster C1 , composed of transcripts that exhibited lower expression in Smad3-/- tumors and higher expression in AOM , ApcMin/+ and Tgfb1-/-; Rag2-/- tumors , contains 391 transcripts , including Cdk4 , Ctnnb1 , Myc , Ezh2 , Mcm2 and Tcf3 . Gene list over-representation analysis using Ingenuity Pathway Analysis applications demonstrated highly significant associations to cell cycle progression , replication , post-transcriptional control and cancer . Similarly , cluster C2 , composed of 663 transcripts that exhibited high expression in AOM and ApcMin/+ tumors , but low in Smad3-/- and Tgfb1-/-; Rag2-/- tumors , included transcripts for contact growth inhibition ( Metap1 , Pcyox1 ) , mitosis ( Mif , Pik1 ) , cell cycle progression and checkpoint control ( Id2 , Ptp4A2 , Tp53 ) . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** Detailed cluster analysis : differential and statistically significant biological functions in clusters C11-C17 PS , ProbeSets . Human CRCs exhibit gene expression profile complexity consistent with significant tumor subclasses . Genes potentially able to distinguish cancer subtypes were identified from Affymetrix HG-U133 plus2 Genechip expression profiles by filtering for 3,285 probe sets that were top-ranked by raw expression and their differential regulation in at least 10 out of 100 human colorectal cancer tumors . Coordinately regulated transcripts and similarly behaving samples were identified via hierarchical tree clustering . Seven different gene clusters ( C11-17 ) were identified that distinguished ten or more tumors from the other tumors . Gene clusters were found to be highly enriched for gene functions listed in Table 3. Data were processed using Robust Microarray Analysis ( RMA ) with expression value ratios depicted as the relative expression per probe set in each sample relative to the median of its expression across the 100 CRCs . A striking heterogeneity of gene expression was observed , including metallothionein genes in cluster C15 previously shown to be predictive of microsatellite instability ( indicated by asterisk ) , and C17 represented by 734 probesets rich in genes associated with extracellular matrix and connective tissue , tumor invasion and malignancy . Tissue groups : AC , adult colon ; CRC , human CRC. Staging : nAC , normal colon ; Dukes A-D , human tumors obtained from individuals . Clusters C11-C17 labeled to the right of the heatmap correspond to the K-means functional clusters listed in Table 3. To evaluate if similar sets of genes are systematically activated or repressed in human CRC , as in the mouse colon tumors , we undertook two procedures to align the data . First , gene expression values for the mouse and human tumors were separately normalized and referenced relative to their respective normal adult colon controls ; second , mouse and human gene identifiers were reduced to a single ortholog gene identifier . The latter is a somewhat complex procedure that requires identifying microarray probes from each platform that can be mapped to a single gene ortholog and undertaking a procedure to aggregate redundant probes within a platform ( see Materials and methods ) . This approach allowed the identification of 8,621 gene transcripts on the HG-U133 plus2 and Vanderbilt NIA 20 K cDNA arrays for which relative expression values could be mapped for nearly all mouse and human samples . A clustering-based assessment of expression across the whole mouse-human ortholog gene set identified a large number of transcripts behaving similarly across colon tumors , many irrespective , but some respective of species . Notably , the great majority of genes over-expressed in all tumors were also over-expressed during colon development ( Figure 6a ) . To evaluate the statistical significance of this pattern , we used a Venn overlap filtering strategy and Fisher 's exact test analysis . Approximately 50 % of the 2,212 ortholog genes over-expressed in at least 10 % of the human cancers relative to adult colon were also over-expressed in developing colon . If there was not a selection for developmental genes among those over-expressed in tumors , the expected overlap would be ( 2,718/8 ,621 ) × 2,212 = 697 transcripts . Using Fisher 's exact test for the significance of the increased overlap of 1,080 versus 697 transcripts is p < 1e-300 . Similarly , genes under-expressed in mouse colon development and human CRCs also strongly overlapped ( Figure 6b ; 431 of 737 , p < 1e-76 ) . This result is significantly greater than the 8-19 % of genes that were estimated to be over-expressed in human colon tumors and fetal gut morphogenesis based upon a computational extrapolation of SAGE data [27] . Thus , our findings not only confirm but also significantly expand and experimentally validate the previously suggested recapitulation of embryonic signatures by human CRCs . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** All overlaps between tumor expression and development were pooled to form a set of 2,116 ortholog gene transcripts . This was subjected to hierarchical tree and K-means clustering to define six expression clusters , C18-C23 ( Figure 6c ; Table 4) . These clusters provide an impressive partitioning of groups of genes associated with different biological functions critical for colon development , maturation and oncogenesis . Cluster C22 (860 transcripts of genes strongly expressed both developmentally and across all tumors ) is highly enriched with genes associated with cell cycle progression , replication , cancer , tumor morphology and cellular movement . Cluster C18 ( 258 transcripts down-regulated in mouse and human tumors , as well as in development ) is highly enriched in genes associated with digestive tract function , biochemical and lipid metabolism . This cluster is clearly composed of genes associated with the mature GI tract . Thus , as opposed to recapitulating developmental gene activation , the cluster C18 pattern indicates a corresponding arrest of differentiation in both mouse and human tumors . Cluster C23 ( 142 transcripts over-expressed in all mouse models and human CRC , but with low expression in development ) maps to genes highly associated with the disruption of basement membranes , invasion and cell cycle progression , as well as altered transcriptional control . Cluster C21 ( 313 transcripts in which human tumors somewhat variably express a set of genes that are rarely expressed by the mouse tumors ) is remarkable for its composition of genes associated with cell cycle proliferation , tissue disruption and angiogenesis . Thus , while categorically quite similar to cluster C23 , the genes in cluster C21 represent a separately regulated module that is enriched for genes associated with invasion . Clusters C21 and C23 reveal sets of genes likely involved in tumor progression . Cluster C22 ( with genes over-expressed in all mouse and human tumors and strongly expressed in embryonic colon ) represents a group of genes highly correlated with transformation . The top-ranked transcription factor present in this cluster , with regulation independent of β-catenin localization , is Myc/MYC ( Figure 7b ) . Although Myc was lower in expression in the Smad3-/- tumors compared to tumors from the other three models , it was elevated in all four models relative to normal adult colon . Myc/MYC was over-expressed in all mouse and human tumors as well as in development . This contrasts with Sox4 , which is unaltered in expression in the Smad3-/- and Tgfb1-/-; Rag2-/- tumors but is up-regulated in AOM and ApcMin/+ tumors relative to normal adult colon ( Figure 7b ) . Myc/MYC over-expression may be independent of nuclear β-catenin status . Increased Myc/MYC expression may reflect both activation of canonical Wnt signaling , as it is a target of nuclear β-catenin/TCF [28] , and deregulation of TGFβ signaling , as TGFβ1 is known to repress Myc/MYC [29-31] . These observations suggest a fundamental role for Myc/MYC in colonic neoplasia . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** As shown in Figure 2a , the microarray patterns of gene expression for AOM and ApcMin/+ tumors are mirror images of those for Tgfb1-/-; Rag2-/- tumors . It is perhaps not surprising that combining these two transcriptional programs results in increased number and invasiveness of colonic tumors as recently reported for ApcMin/+ mice crossed to Smad3-/- mice [45] . Moreover , combined activation of canonical WNT signaling and inhibition of TGFβ signaling also results in more advanced intestinal tumors in Apcdelta716/+ ; Smad4+/ - mice [46] , and intestine-specific deletion of the type II TGFβ receptor in Apc1638N/wt mice [47] . The findings that shared over-expressed signatures are identifiable in all four mouse models of CRC , which are also representative of the majority of embryonic colonic over-expressed signatures , and that these signatures are also present in all human CRCs , suggest that colon tumors may arise independently of canonical WNT signaling status . A likely candidate to impart this oncogenic signaling is Myc , which is an embryonic up-regulated transcript that is also upregulated in all human CRCs and mouse tumor models independently of nuclear β-catenin status . Embryology provides insight into the biology of mouse and human colon tumors It has long been suggested that cancer represents a reversion to an embryonic state , partly based upon the observation that several oncofetal antigens are diagnostic for some tumors [48,49] . To assess the embryology-related aspects of tumorigenesis and tumor progression in CRC , we analyzed and compared the transcriptomes of normal mouse colon development and models of CRC. Our data show that developmentally regulated genes represent approximately 56 % of mouse tumor signatures , and that the tumor signatures from the four mouse models recapitulate approximately 85 % of developmentally regulated genes . There are at least two regulatory programs that determine the expression of developmental genes by mouse tumors ( Figures 2 , 4 , and 8 ) . The simpler program is evident by the over-expression of the earliest genes of colon development by the nuclear β-catenin-positive models . The more subtle program could be detected only in reference to adult colon and is highly shared by nuclear β-catenin-negative models . This program , though modified by nuclear β-catenin status , is represented by a large scale over-expression of developmentally expressed genes in tumors that are both positive and negative for canonical WNT signaling . Genes found within this signature have a large overlap with those present in the colon at later developmental stages ( E16.5-E18.5 ) . An integrated view of colon cancer transcriptional programs provides novel insight into neoplasia . Murine colon tumor adenomas and human CRCs both show adoption and dysregulation of signatures tightly controlled during embryonic mouse colon development . The use of etiologically distinct mouse models of colon cancer allows for the identification of models that resemble different stages of embryonic mouse colon development and that are recapitulated by specific tumor types . ( a ) All tumors exhibit large-scale activation of developmental patterns . Nuclear β-catenin-positive ( ApcMin/+ and AOM) tumors map more strongly to early development stages during ( more proliferative , less differentiated ) , whereas nuclear β-catenin-negative ( Tgfb1-/-; Rag2-/- and Smad3-/-) tumors map more strongly to later stages consistent with increased epithelial differentiation . ( b ) Overall representation of the relationship of mouse colon tumor models and human CRC to development and non-developmental expression patterns . Gene expression clusters mapped to the progression of adenomatous and carcinomatous transformation identified in Figures 5 and 6 are shown as the clusters of genes whose expression is either gained or lost associated with the stage of progression . For example normal development could be considered as 'subverted ' if there is an absence of expression of genes normally expressed at high level in the developing colon that fail to be expressed in tumors ( for example , C18 , C19 ) , or that are activated in tumor but not normally expressed in development ( C20 ) . Upregulated clusters are enriched for genes with known oncogenic functions and down-regulated clusters for genes associated with tumor suppression . Both mouse colon tumor models and human CRC share in the activation of embryonic colon expression ( C22 ) , or partially overlap ( C23 , dotted lines ) the loss or repression of adult differentiation-associated genes ( C19 ) , and the loss of tumor suppressor genes ( C18 ) . Many human CRCs also lack the expression of additional tumor suppressor programs and gain the expression of oncogenes that are not over-expressed during normal developmental morphogenesis ( C21 ) . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** How do genes tightly regulated during mouse colon development become activated in colon tumors ? While activated canonical WNT signaling imparts a strong influence , its absence in Tgfb1-/-; Rag2-/- and Smad3-/- tumors , as determined by the absence of nuclear β-catenin , did not prevent the large scale activation of developmental/embryonic gene expression . One mechanism may be through epigenetic alterations . In human CRCs , these types of alterations in gene expression programs [50] suggest a link between cellular homeostasis and tumorigenesis . The recruitment of histone acetyltransferases and histone deacetylases ( HDACs ) are key steps in the regulation of cell proliferation and differentiation during normal development and carcinogenesis [51] . Induction of Hdac2 expression occurs in 82 % of human CRCs as well as in tumors from ApcMin/+ mice [19] . Alternatively , common regulatory controls may operate in parallel growth and differentiation/anti-diifferentiation pathways such that a single or small subset of regulators , such as MYC or one or more micro RNAs , may be responsible for the control of multiple pathways . Indeed , consistent with our observation of nuclear β-catenin-independent activation of Myc in all mouse models and across the board for human CRC , deletion of Myc has recently been demonstrated to completely abrogate nuclear β-catenin-driven small bowel oncogenesis in mouse models [52] . Comparative analysis reveals underlying development-related signatures in human CRCs As shown in Figure 5 , considerable and intriguing heterogeneity of human CRC is observed among genes highly relevant for differential malignant behavior . However , employing between-tumors normalization and referencing strategies prevents the detection of gene expression patterns that are shared between tumors . Using the adult normal colon as a reference , as shown in Figure 6 , a large fraction of differential gene expression relative to adult colon could be demonstrated that recapitulated developmental gene expression by virtue of both activating embryonic colon gene expression and failing to express genes associated with normal colon maturation . Within these developmentally regulated gene sets , our analyses revealed little evidence of CRC subsets , including those suggestive of nuclear β-catenin negative tumors that might approximate the Smad3-/- and Tgfb1-/-; Rag2-/- signature . Our inability to identify distinct subclasses with respect to developmental genes in the human CRCs is perhaps not surprising in that over 80 % of microsatellite-unstable ( MSI+ ) CRCs from HNPCC families exhibit nuclear β-catenin [53] . In addition , within the developmental genes , little evidence was apparent for signatures related to MSI+ tumors , often associated with HNPCC , although some of this type of signature was perhaps apparent in the median normalized depiction of the tumors as highlighted in Figure 5 . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** Inter-organism gene ortholog and inter-platform comparison strategy Pairs of human and mouse ortholog genes ( 12,693 ) were curated using the Mouse Genome Informatics ( MGI ; The Jackson Laboratory ) [61] and National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI ) Homologene [62] databases . Individual microarray elements or features were mapped to these . The concatenated human and mouse RefSeq IDs was used as the composite ID for the orthologous gene pair in the ortholog genome definition . NIA/Research Genetics mouse cDNAs were mapped to human orthologs using a variety of resources , usually via the Stanford Online Universal Reference resource [63] . Gene transcript assignments were made unique by choosing the longest corresponding transcript . To map the Affymetrix human and mouse array data into the ortholog genome , we used a sequence matching approach . First , we obtained human and mouse transcript sequences from RefSeq [64] and probe sequences from the manufacturer 's website [65] . Next , we computed all perfect probe-transcript pairs . We excluded probes that matched multiple gene symbols but accepted probes that matched multiple transcripts . Probe sets were assigned to represent a given transcript if at least 50 % of the perfect match probes of the probe set matched to that transcript . The newly assigned transcript identifiers were then used to map probe sets to ortholog genes . Since some transcripts have multiple probe-set representations on both the Affymetrix and cDNA microarrays to one ortholog identifier , we employed an ad hoc strategy to use the average of those probe sets or cDNAs that exhibited consistent regulation across a sample series . In such cases , the signals of the regulated probe sets that were interpreted as being in agreement were averaged and assigned to the corresponding ortholog . We excluded probe sets or cDNAs that we were aware corresponded to non-transcript genomic sequence as tested using BLAT at the UCSC Goldenpath website [66] . Mouse-human RefSeq gene ortholog assignments can be found at GenomeTrafac [67,68] . All ortholog assignments and cross-species mapping annotations were incorporated into annotations associated with the Affymetrix HG-U133 plus2.0 genome . Gene expression ratios obtained for the mouse samples were then represented as expression values within the human platform for all of the probe sets that mapped to the corresponding mouse gene ortholog . Data for the primary human sample series , as well as the combined mouse-human data sets , are available in the Cincinnati Children 's Hospital Medical Center microarray data server [69] in the HG-U133 genome under the KaiserEtAl_2006 folders ( 'guest ' login ; all cross-platform ortholog gene identifiers are contained as annotation fields within the HG-U133 genome table ) . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** Statistical and data visualization approaches Most normalization , expression-level referencing , statistical comparisons , and data visualization were performed using GeneSpring v7.0 ( Silicon Genetics-Agilent ( part of Agilent Technologies ) . Fisher 's exact test was performed online at the MATFORSK Fisher 's Exact Test server [70] . To identify differentially expressed features between two or more classes , we applied GeneSpring 's Wilcoxon-Mann-Whitney or the Kruskal-Wallis test , respectively . For three or more classes , the initial non-parametric test was followed by the Student-Newman-Keuls post-hoc test . Results from the primary analyses were corrected for multiple testing effects by applying Benjamini and Hochberg false discovery rate ( FDR) correction [71] . In general , due to the referencing strategies , good platform technical performances , and moderately low within-group biological variation of gene expression , stringent cutoffs could be used , that is , the FDR level of significance was set between FDR < 5.10-5 and FDR < 5.10-4. K-means clustering was performed using the GeneSpring K-means tool and the Pearson correlation similarity measure . Ontology-based analysis of gene cluster-associated functional correlates Gene expression clusters were analyzed for the occurrence of multiple genes involved in related gene function categories by comparing each list of coordinately regulated clustered genes to categories within Gene Ontology , pathways , or literature-based gene associations using GATACA [72] , Ontoexpress [73] , and Ingenuity Pathway Analysis , version 3 ( IPA , Ingenuity Systems , Redwood City , CA , USA ) [74] . To do this , each cluster indicated in Figures 2 , 4 , 5 , 6 and 8 was converted to a list of gene identifiers , uploaded to the application , and examined for over-representation of multiple genes from one or more molecular networks , or functional or disease associations as developed from literature mining . Networks of these focus genes were algorithmically generated based on the relationships of individual genes as derived from literature review and used to identify the biological functions and/or associated pathological processes most significant for each gene cluster . Fisher 's exact test was used to calculate a p value estimating the probability that a particular functional classification or category of genes is associated with a particular pattern or cluster of gene expression more than would be expected by chance . For each cluster , only the top significant functional classes and canonical pathways are shown . Figure 7a shows a diagram of the canonical WNT signaling pathway and an associated-gene network that was a top-ranked association of the clusters that exhibited significant over-expression in AOM and ApcMin/+ versus Smad3-/- and Tgfb1-/-; Rag2-/- mouse models . Genes or gene products are represented as nodes , and biological relationships between nodes are represented as edges ( lines ) . All edges are supported by at least one literature reference from a manuscript , or from canonical information stored in the Ingenuity Pathways Knowledge Base . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** promoter methylation in peripheral blood DNA of mutation negative familial breast cancer patients with a tumour phenotype Abstract Introduction Individuals with germline mutations in the BRCA1 gene have an elevated risk of developing breast cancer , and often display characteristic clinicopathological features . We hypothesised that inactivation of BRCA1 by promoter methylation could occur as a germline or an early somatic event that predisposes to breast cancer with the phenotype normally associated with BRCA1 germline mutation . Methods We examined seven cases from breast-ovarian cancer families with tumours that showed BRCA1-like pathology but did not have detectable BRCA1 or BRCA2 germline mutations present . Methylation levels were tested by several quantitative techniques including Methy Light , methylation-sensitive high resolution melting ( MS-HRM ) and a newly developed digital MS-HRM assay . Results In one patient , methylation of 10 % of the BRCA1 alleles was detected in the peripheral blood DNA , consistent with 20 % of cells having one methylated allele . Buccal mucosa DNA from this individual displayed approximately 5 % BRCA1 methylation . In two other patients , methylation of BRCA1 was detected in the peripheral blood at significantly lower but still readily detectable levels ( approximately 1 % ) . Tumour DNAs from these three patients were heavily methylated at BRCA1 . The other patients had no detectable BRCA1 methylation in their peripheral blood . One of seven age-matched controls showed extremely low levels of methylation in their peripheral blood ( approximately 0.1 % ) . Conclusion These results demonstrate that in some cases of breast cancer , low-level promoter methylation of BRCA1 occurs in normal tissues of the body and is associated with the development of BRCA1-like breast cancer . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** Introduction In 1994 , BRCA1 was identified as the first major gene associated with familial breast cancer predisposition [1] . Since then many inactivating mutations in BRCA1 have been identified as breast cancer predisposition alleles . Breast cancers associated with BRCA1 mutations often show characteristic histological features including high grade , high mitotic count , solid architecture and prominent lymphocytic infiltrates , all features resembling so-called medullary cancer [2-4] . BRCA1-associated tumours are usually negative by immunohistochemistry for the oestrogen receptor ( ER ) , the progesterone receptor ( PR ) and HER2 [5-7] . However , the majority of breast cancers that exhibit a BRCA1-like phenotype do not harbour detectable germline mutations in BRCA1 . Some of this discordance may be due to epigenetic defects in breast cancer susceptibility genes such as BRCA1 contributing to breast cancer predisposition . Recent reports of somatic methylation ( or epimutations ) affecting an allele of the MLH1 gene in patients with hereditary non-polyposis colorectal cancer indicate inactivation of tumour suppressor genes by promoter methylation can occur early in development or possibly in the germline [8-10] . Allelic methylation is functionally equivalent to a mutation in that loss of activity of the second allele arising from a mutation , loss of heterozygosity or a second methylation event will inactivate the gene . Methylation of the BRCA1 promoter has been shown to occur in approximately 20 % of breast cancer patients [11-14] . Sporadic tumours with BRCA1 promoter methylation have been reported to be ER and PR negative [13,14] , or to display similar pathological features to those of BRCA1-mutated hereditary breast cancers [15] . Furthermore , tumours with BRCA1 methylation appear to have similar global gene expression profiles to BRCA1 mutated tumours [16] and similar genomic copy number profiles [17] . Other authors have claimed that BRCA1 methylated tumours have distinct pathologies to those seen in BRCA1 mutated tumours [18] . The discrepancy may at least in part be resolved by the hypothesis that the timing of BRCA1 methylation will influence tumour phenotype ; the earlier in tumorigenesis methylation occurs , the greater the similarity to tumours arising from germline BRCA1 mutations . It must also be taken into consideration that while most tumours arising in BRCA1 mutation carriers have typical pathology , a sizeable minority do not . We hypothesised that some individuals are predisposed to develop breast cancer with the features associated with BRCA1 mutations because they carry a methylated BRCA1 allele in their somatic tissues . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** In digital MS-HRM , bisulfite modified DNA is diluted to the point where the individual PCR reactions contained 0, 1 or occasionally 2 amplifiable templates . This eliminates the problem of PCR bias where unmethylated or methylated templates have different amplification efficiencies , hence skewing the actual methylated to unmethylated ratios . Multiple replicates of the diluted sample are amplified by PCR where it is expected that many reactions will not amplify because of the absence of template . The melting profile of each reaction or 'clone ' is then used to determine its methylation status . The proportion of methylation in a sample can be readily estimated by comparing the number of reactions with a peak with elevated melting temperature characteristic of methylation , over those with an lower melting temperature unmethylated peak . Digital MS-HRM was performed on peripheral blood and buccal mucosal DNA from KCF3 . For the peripheral blood DNA , 13 of the 107 clones had a methylated peak on melting analysis ( Figure 3 ) , equating to 12 % BRCA1 methylation in the peripheral blood . In the buccal mucosa , 4 of the 69 clones were methylated , equating to 6 % methylation . These results confirmed the level of BRCA1 methylation estimated by both MethyLight and MS-HRM . When considered at a cellular rather than an allelic level , we estimate that the peripheral blood contains approximately 25 % of cells with one methylated BRCA1 allele and that the buccal mucosa contains approximately 10 % methylated cells . Digital methylation-sensitive high resolution melting ( MS-HRM ) and sequencing for KCF3 peripheral blood DNA . The blue curve indicates the unmethylated control . The black curve indicates the methylated control . The green curves indicate unmethylated amplicons . The red curves indicate methylated amplicons . Sequencing for the unmethylated and methylated controls are shown above the digital MS-HRM results . Sequences of the indicated red amplicons ( lettered ) are shown to right of the figure where the letter to the right of the chromatograph corresponds to the curve shown . Representative methylated and unmethylated clones from the digital MS-HRM experiments were sequenced to confirm the methylation status ( Figure 3 ) . A stretch of 22 bases containing four CpG sites was analysed . For the peripheral blood DNA of KCF3 ( Figure 3 ) , four of the six methylated clones had a cytosine present at all four CpGs , confirming the methylation seen by other methodologies . One clone had cytosines present at all CpGs sites but also had an additional cytosine present at a conversion site where a thymine would be expected , preceding a CpG site . The other non-CpG cytosines were converted indicating that this corresponded to a methylated allele . For one other clone only two of the CpGs were methylated but this may have been due to incomplete conversion . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** The assay conditions used in this study could not distinguish between samples with pathogenic BRCA1 mutations and those with pathogenic BRCA2 mutations . Ionising radiation has previously been show to separate fibroblast cells which carry BRCA1 or BRCA2 mutations from sporadic cases with 100 % accuracy [31] , but our experiment differs in several respects . We compared BRCA1 and BRCA2 cases to familial BRCAX cases as an appropriate reference group for familial breast cases likely to be identified as carriers of BRCA1/2 mutations or unclassified variants , we used LCLs instead of fibroblasts , we selected a lower IR exposure ( 10Gy vs 15Gy ) , and we chose a relatively early time point of 30 mins after exposure to IR in order to gain a better understanding of the functional differences in response to IR between the BRCA1 , BRCA2 and BRCAX cell lines . Some or all of these factors may explain the difference in the ability of this study to distinguish BRCA1 from BRCA2 , both of which are involved in DNA damage repair . However , differences in post-irradiation response between BRCAX individuals and BRCA1/2 mutation carriers are supported by alternative analysis we have conducted of the subset of genes reported to be involved in post-irradiation response , comparing mutation-negative normal female controls to BRCAX individuals without an LCS variant , or to BRCA1 or BRCA2 truncating mutation carriers . Our results indicate substantial differences in radiation response between normal controls and the patient groups , and also considerable differences between the BRCAX group and BRCA1 and BRCA2 carriers [37] . Alternative IR exposures and/or post-IR timepoints , and possibly different DNA damaging agents , should be considered for future experiments . The ultimate aim of this experiment was to identify array profiles that would be useful for the classification of unclassified sequence variants of BRCA1 or BRCA2 . In the clinical setting , individuals generally present with full sequencing of both genes , and presence of a variant in one gene or the other . We thus assessed the ability to distinguish BRCA1 or BRCA2 , separately , from BRCAX individuals . Importantly , since most unclassified variants are predicted to cause amino acid substitutions , we also assessed the relevance of mutation effect for expression profiles . We found that the genes which significantly differed between BRCA1 or BRCA2 and BRCAX LCLs were dependent on mutation effect . Accordingly , the SVM prediction for each mutation effect was best if the appropriate gene list was used , in terms of both accuracy of prediction ( BRCA1 or BRCA2 vs BRCAX ) and confidence in the classification as determined by the distance of the prediction from the SVM plane . Thus we strongly urge that mutation effect is taken into account if this type of assay is to be developed for use in predicting the clinical significance of BRCA1/2 variants . The current challenge is that few missense variants have been classified with respect to their clinical significance , with the only 23 individual missense variants termed clinically important by BIC , 17 in BRCA1 and six in BRCA2 . Moreover , these are restricted in terms of the domains/regions in which they occur , residing in the BRCA1 start site ( n = 2 ) , ring finger ( n = 4 ) or transactivation domains ( n = 11 ) , and the BRCA2 CDK2 phosphorylation site ( n = 3 ) or at one codon ( 2336 , n = 3 ) in a region of unknown function . It will thus be difficult to accrue a panel of known pathogenic missense variants for use in such predictive assays , and will require a concerted collaborative effort . Assuming sufficient pathogenic variants are identified , the successful execution of such a study may eventually distinguish missense-associated gene expression patterns that are generic to missense mutations , and/or those that are specific to the domain location of missense mutations . In addition , a possibly greater challenge will be identifying assay conditions (cell type , perturbation , time-point etc ) that can also identify gene expression differences between patients with rare variants of low clinical significance in BRCA1 and/or BRCA2 and those with truly high-risk pathogenic mutations ( truncating or missense ) in these genes . Our study , using conditions that were not optimal for separating BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutations nevertheless identified gene expression differences between BRCA1/2 pathogenic mutations and LCS variants , suggesting that larger sample sizes and further experimentation may identify a more robust gene list to separate pathogenic mutations , variants of low clinical significance , and individuals with no sequence alterations in BRCA1/2 . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** 27 LCLs from women from breast cancer families that have tested negative for pathogenic mutations in BRCA1 or BRCA2 ( BRCAX ) after complete sequencing and multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification gene dosage assay ( MLPA ) large deletion testing of BRCA1 and BRCA2 . Ten samples , carried either BRCA1 or BRCA2 sequence germline variants considered from multifactorial likelihood classification to be LCS ( BRCA1 3582 G>C D1155H , 1605 C>T R496C , 5236 G>C G1706A ( 2 samples ) ; BRCA2 353 A>G Y42C , 2834 C>T S869L , 3031 G>A D935N ( 3 samples ) , 8795 A>C E2856A ) [16] ,[19] ,[21] ,[22](unpublished data ) . The remaining 17 samples carried no BRCA1 or BRCA2 sequence variants other than common polymorphisms . Gene Expression Profiling LCLs were grown in RPMI 1640 media with 15 % fetal bovine serum , 1 % penicillin-streptomycin and 1 % L-glutamine . The cell number was normalised and fresh medium was added to cells 24hr prior to irradiation with 10Gy , using a calibrated Cs137 c-source delivering 1 Gy/1.5 min . Total RNA was harvested 30min later using an RNeasy kit ( Qiagen , Doncaster , VIC ) . The Illumina Totalprep RNA amplification kit ( Ambion , Austin , TX ) was used to amplify and biotinylate 450ng of total RNA . Biotinylated RNA was hybridised overnight at 55°C to Illumina Human-6 version 1 BeadChips containing >46,000 probes ( Illumina Inc. , San Diego , CA ) . The microarrays were washed , stained with streptavidin-Cy3 , and then scanned with an Illumina BeadArray Scanner . Duplicate arrays were performed for eight cell lines across the different groups for quality control purposes , with duplicates performed on different days . All duplicate arrays showed highest correlation with each other ( correlation >0.98 ) . Duplicate samples were not included in analysis . Comparative real-time PCR was performed for ten genes on 6–8 samples , using GAPDH to normalise all data , and the comparative cycle threshold method for analysis . Paired student t tests were performed to determine the significance of gene expression changes . Expression differences were validated for 8/10 genes tested . Data Analysis Raw data was imported into Illumina Beadstudio and then exported into Genespring v7.3 ( Agilent Technologies , Forest Hill , VIC ) for further analysis . Data was normalised ( per chip normalized to 50th percentile and per gene normalized to median ) and filtered using an Illumina detection score of >0.99 in at least one sample , which yielded 20,874 probes that were used in all further analyses . The majority of these probes used in the analysis were designed by Illumina to assay the curated portion of the NIH Ref sequence database-16,923 were present in the Ref sequence database , comprising 65 % of all Ref sequence-listed probes on the array . Transcripts which had a >2-fold change versus the mean were visualised using unsupervised Hierarchical Clustering ( Figures 1 and 2 ) . The clustering method used was a Pearson correlation similarity measure with an average linkage clustering algorithm . Two different methods were used to classify LCLs based on mutation status : ( 1 ) A multi comparison Gaussian Process Classifier ( GPC ) [42] with Leave-One-Out cross-validation to determine the prediction errors , as previously used to predict BRCA1/BRCA2 mutation status of irradiated fibroblasts [31] ; ( 2 ) A linear classification method commonly used for classification of microarray data , Support Vector Machines ( SVM ) [43] with Leave-One-Out cross validation . The GPC analysis used 2031 genes which were derived from a t-test to select the genes that were significantly over/under-expressed at the 5 % significance , while the SVM used genes from the 20,874 detected probes which differed between groups of LCLs using a t-test p of 0.05 . All resulting gene lists are available as supplementary data and all data is available via GEO : Accession number GSE10905 . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** In the present study patients included in the Swedish Polyposis Registry were subjected to a thorough clinical characterization and mutational screening of the APC gene including screening for large deletions and detection of low-frequency alleles caused by germline mosaicism . Sixty-one mutations , including 27 not described previously , are reported . Among the characterized mutations are elusive changes such as a case of mosaicism , splicing defects , and a mutation in APC exon 1 which is the most 5' APC mutation hitherto reported . The detection of reduced APC expression in one family is also described . A combination of mutation screening techniques was used to achieve as high a mutation-detection frequency as possible . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** Seven of the identified APC mutations were large deletions , ranging from a deletion of 86 bp in exon 15 to a deletion of the whole APC gene ( Figure 1C) . Three of these deletions have not , to the best of the authors ' knowledge , been described earlier . The deletion encompassing APC exon 4 in patient 3765 , c.423-1662_531+1825del3595 , was detected by RNA-based PTT with subsequent cDNA sequencing and verified by long-range PCR on genomic DNA . We could not detect this deletion with MLPA even though a probe for exon 4 is included in the MLPA kit ( see the discussion ) . Detection of the large deletion in patient C591 , encompassing APC exons 13 through the 5' part of exon 15 , was carried out with MLPA. The deletion in patient 2136 was identified by PTT and subsequent DNA sequencing . A case of APC mosaicism Three patients ( C107 , C257 , and C505 ) , negative for mutations in APC , were reported as de novo cases with no known family history of FAP. These patients where all screened for APC mutations present as low-frequency alleles using SSCP/HD. We did not detect any signs of low-frequency mutations in patients C257 and C505 . However , in patient C107 , aberrant bands , possibly originating from formation of heteroduplexes , was detected by SSCP/HD in a very low fraction of her blood lymphocytes . The c.2700_2701delTC mutation , which results in frame shift at codon 900 , was found by sequencing of the aberrant bands excised from the SSCP/HD gel ( Figure 2A ) . The mutation was detected in approximately one-third of the analyzed tumor-derived cells extracted from paraffin-embedded tissue by DNA sequencing ( Figure 2B ) . The mutation was not detectable at all in the sequence determination of DNA extracted from blood lymphocytes from the patient ( Figure 2C ) . Detection of the mosaic c.2700_2701delTC mutation in patient C107 . Nucleotide 2700 is indicated with an arrow . ( A ) The aberrant bands indicated by the bracket were excised from the SSCP/HD gel . The resulting DNA sequence is shown to the right . ( B ) DNA sequence from DNA extracted from tumor-derived cells from the patient . ( C ) The DNA sequence from DNA isolated from the patient 's blood lymphocytes . Mutation at the far 5'end DNA sequencing of APC exon 1 in patient C157 revealed the c.70C > T substitution which introduces a nonsense mutation in codon 24 ( Figure 1 ) . The mutation was also detectable by SSCP/HD analysis but was not detectable by PTT due to its localization close to the 5' end of the PTT fragment . However , indication for a mutation was observed as lowered intensity of the full-length fragment . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** Pedigree presenting a part of family 1 of the Swedish Polyposis Registry . Family members where positive linkage to APC has been confirmed are indicated with asterisks . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** A case of APC mosaicism Screening for mosaic mutations in the three APC- and MUTYH-negative patients with de novo mutations revealed the c.2700_2701delTC mutation in patient C107 . This mutation was detected in a very low fraction of the lymphocytes and was only detectable using the SSCP/HD analysis ( Figure 2A ) . Owing to the subtle appearance of this mutation it could easily have been overlooked . The phenotype of patient C107 does not fit the generally accepted genotype-phenotype correlation of AFAP , in which the disease-causing mutations are situated either in the 5' or 3' regions or the alternatively spliced part of exon 9 ( see the introduction ) . A speculative reason for the attenuated phenotype could be that the patient is mosaic in the epithelial cells of the colon . The parents of patient C107 of age 73 and 80 years as well as her three children , age 31–40 years , were free of polyps . No CRC has been diagnosed on either the maternal or paternal side of the family . The mutation was not detected in blood samples from the patient 's parents or from her three children . It is possible that either gonadal or somatic mosaicism exists in patient C107 . APC mutational mosaicism could be a reason for the quite large number of de novo or sporadic FAP cases that exist [23-25,40] . In the family of C107 the mutation has not been passed on to the offspring of the patient and , thus , this appears to be a sporadic case , but , generally , the existence of mosaicism is a risk of error in predictive diagnosis in FAP/AFAP families [43] . In the initial stages , the molecular screening procedure of FAP/AFAP patients uses mainly PCR-based methods for analysis of the APC gene in DNA from isolated blood samples . Therefore , the chances of detecting pathogenic low-frequency APC mutations that are present only in a small fraction of the peripheral blood cells or only in the colon are poor . Approximately 25 % of neurofibromatosis type 2 ( NF2 ) patients have been shown to be cases of mosaicism [44] . When investigating NF2 mutational mosaicism , the search for constitutional mutations is preferably carried out initially in tumor cells . Detected mutations could subsequently be verified in blood leukocyte samples . However , this approach would not be applicable for FAP mosaisicm as somatic APC mutations are frequently found in tumors . Splice-site affecting mutations Two novel germline APC mutations that introduce different cryptic splice sites are characterized in this study . Both mutations result in the aberrant splicing of APC exons 7 and 8 and prematurely truncated APC protein , and both are defined as pathogenic . The aberrant splicing identified in patient C496 ( c.835-7T > G ) is caused by an introduction of a new active splice site 6 bp upstream of the wildtype AG splice site of intron 7. This acceptor site is apparently preferred by the splicing machinery , as shown by the results of the cDNA sequencing ( Figure 3 ) . The c.834G > C substitution at the last nucleotide of exon 7 in patient C633 , would theoretically introduce a missense mutation at codon 278 . However , as demonstrated by the cDNA sequencing results ( Figure 4 ) the mutation leads to the use of a cryptic splice donor site 11 bp upstream in exon 7. This real outcome of the mutation would easily have been overlooked unless the RNA-based methods had been used . Other examples of aberrant splicing of the APC gene due to missense mutations have recently been described [16] . One case of use of aberrant splice-acceptor site of APC exon 8 has been reported previously in a patient with classical polyposis [15] . However , an alternative acceptor splice site ( c.845-17A > G ) in intron 7 has been reported from a patient with a milder phenotype , multiple synchronous colorectal adenomas [45] . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** Owing to the fact that RNA-based PTT was used at the initial stage of the mutational screening , detection of the disease-causing splice-site mutations was straightforward . Sequencing of genomic DNA was then used to pinpoint the genetic alteration causing the aberrant mRNA sequence that was visualized in the PTT experiments . The use of both DNA - and mRNA-based methods is a prerequisite for high-quality investigation of splice-site mutations . A case of reduced APC expression The study of mRNA levels was the next step in the line of investigation of the cause of disease in patients with no detected APC mutation . Family 1 is the largest kindred in the Swedish Polyposis Registry ; this family includes 150 individuals of whom 57 are affected by the disease ( Figure 6 shows part of the pedigree ) . However , no pathogenic mutation had been detected after screening the whole coding region of the APC gene but as the family did show positive linkage to the APC locus we decided to perform expression analyses and evidence of lowered APC expression was obtained by quantitative real-time PCR ( Figure 5A ) . The result was supported by the indication of a lower expression from the T-allele from analysis of the APC c.5465A > T polymorphism in the cDNA sequencing diagram of two affected family members ( Figure 5B ) . The search for mutations in the DNA sequence of the APC promoters has been initiated , but no pathogenic change has been detected to this date . The possibility of the pathogenic change being epigenetic will have to be investigated further . Hypermethylation of CpG sites in the promoter of APC has been reported as a means of gene silencing in colorectal tumors [46-49] . To the best of the authors ' knowledge no germ-line inactivation of APC caused by promoter hypermethylation has been reported . However , cases of pathogenic germline epimutations have been identified in the MLH1 gene , which causes hereditary non-polyposis CRC [50,51] . Mutation-detection frequency The 61 different APC mutations listed in Additional file 2 were identified among 81 of the 96 families of the Swedish Polyposis Registry that were screened for APC mutations . Fifteen of the cases shown to be APC-mutation negative where all subjected to mutational screening of the MUTYH gene and six of them were shown to carry biallelic MUTYH mutations ( reported in Kanter Smoler et al[31] ) . The overall mutation-detection rate in APC and MUTYH among the families in our study was thus 90 % . In total , 84 % of the families carried APC mutations while 6 % where positive for biallelic MUTYH mutations . The mutation-detection rate we have reached in this study is notably high . In fact , a disease-causing mutation was detected in all cases who presented with a classical FAP phenotype ( except for family 1 ( C152 ) , where we have clear indications for inactivation of the APC transcription ) . The mutation-negative patients all display an attenuated form of disease . However , as we have also found subtle mutations in the APC gene in patients with attenuated FAP , we have to consider inactivation of APC to be responsible for some of these FAP cases . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** In comparison to MLH1 and MSH2 , the phenotype of MSH6 is characterised by a later age of onset of CRC , incomplete penetrance , and a higher risk and later age of onset of EC in female MSH6 carriers15,21 . MSH6 mutation carriers may be missed amongst analysis of HNPCC families if the Amsterdam criteria are used as selection criteria22 It is likely that MSH6 mutations may occur at a higher prevalence in a cohort of EC patients in comparison to HNPCC cohorts that have been selected by the Amsterdam criteria which are characteristic of HNPCC families with a mutation in MLH1 or MSH2 . A few studies have looked at the prevalence of MSH6 mutations in EC patients with estimates between 1.7 % of patients with EC less than 50 years23 , and 4.7 % identified in EC patients un-selected for age or family history24 . In this study we sought to determine the prevalence of MSH6 mutations in our Northern Ireland HNPCC cohort with less restrictive inclusion criteria than the Amsterdam II criteria , in an attempt to include as many MSH6 phenotype families as possible given the probable later onset of colon cancers ; and also determine the prevalence of mutations in an unselected cohort of EC patients . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** All DNA was or had been extracted by the Nucleic Acid Extraction Centre ( NAEC ) , Belfast City Hospital , and stored at −80°C. Working dilutions in X1 TE were made at 5ng/μl . All ten exons and at least 20 base pair ( bp ) of flanking intronic sequence was subject to direct sequencing analysis . PCR products for nine of ten exons of MSH6 were obtained using Applied Biosystems VariantSEQr™ Requencing System ( product number : RSS000012234_02 ) . All reactions were carried out using standard reaction mix and conditions as determined by ABI. Exon 1 primers were as follows : 1F PCR ; TCCGTCCGACAGAACGGTTG , 1R PCR ; ATGCTCCAGACTCGACCCG , using a standard 25μl reaction mix with 3.4μl of 25mm MgCl2 and 0.4μl of 5U/μl Expand DNA polymerase ( ABI ) at an annealing temperature of 60°C. All PCR products were subject to clean up using ExoSAPIT®† to remove excess primer dimer , unincorporated dNTPs , and non-specific DNA products . Sequencing reactions were carried out using BigDye® terminator Ready Reaction Mix v1.1 from ABI® , according to manufacturer 's instructions . Additional primers were required to sequence exons 7 and 8 because of a poly T at the 5′ end of exon 7 , which resulted in slippage during the sequencing reaction , and polymorphisms situated at the 3′ , ( c.3646 +35_38delATCT) of exon 7 , and 5′ , ( c.3647 −51_−35 del 17 ) , and 3′ ( c.3802–42insT ) end of exon 8 , which made sequence of the exons unreadable when the polymorphisms were present in the heterozygous state . Additional sequencing primers for exon 7 ( 7F Seq ; TTGTGATTTTTTTTTTTTTAAG , 7R Seq ; TAGTCTTCAAATGAGAAG ) and 8 (8F Seq ; GAGTTACTTCCTTATGCA , 8R Seq ; GAAGTGCCCTCTCAAAAAACC ) were designed . Electrophoresis was carried out by the Queen 's University Belfast genomic core facility on an ABI 3730 DNA analyser . MLPA Analysis All samples were subject to MLPA analysis using SALSA MLPA KIT POO8 MSH6/PMS2 from MRC-Holland . Reaction mix and conditions are as determined by MRC-Holland . Electrophoresis was carried on an ABI 3100 Avant DNA analyzer using a GeneScan™ - 500 ROX™ size standard . From the raw data generated , peak heights of each amplification product were exported to Excel worksheets designed by Dr Andrew Wallace , National Genetics Reference Laboratory , Manchester , so that the result of each sample could be ‘normalised’ . Statistical Methods The cohort sizes necessary to obtain estimates with adequate precision were initially calculated using a Normal approximation to the binomial sampling distribution provided by the StatCalc program in the EpiInfo package ( ) . The Stata package ( ) was used to give the exact binomial confidence limits for a proportion ( Table I ) . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** CONCLUSION From this study we have identified the minimum prevalence of pathogenic mutations in MSH6 to be higher in an unselected cohort of EC patients , than a cohort of HNPCC patients who have been selected by criteria ‘widened ’ from the traditional Amsterdam II criteria , in keeping with the described phenotype of MSH6 . Unlike the other more common MMR genes , genomic rearrangements do not contribute to a large proportion of mutations in MSH6 . HNPCC families may not be identified if patients present with HNPCC associated cancers , such as gynaecological cancer , rather than the more commonly recognised phenotype of CRC. Clinicians should be vigilant to this possibility when presented with a history of endometrial cancer in young women . Further work on immunohistochemistry of possible missense variants may increase the true frequency of mutations in MSH6 . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** To understand more precisely the mechanistic roles that Mlh3 and Pms2 play in GI tumor suppression , we generated Mlh3−/−;Apc1638N ( MA ) and Mlh3−/−;Pms2−/−;Apc1638N ( MPA ) mice . We show that in vivo Mlh3 mutations significantly increase frameshift mutation rates in Apc , and increase GI tumorigenesis . Unlike typical MSI-induced mutations , Mlh3 deficiency also results in frameshift mutations in non-repetitive sequences , a unique mutational signature among MMR deficient mice found only in Mlh3 deficient mice . Consistent with the role of Pms2 in SBR , combined Mlh3 and Pms2 mutations proportionally increase point mutations and show a sequence preference for a CpG mutation hotspot also previously seen in Mlh1−/ − mice . Because MPA mutant mice also have significantly increased rates of GI adenocarcinomas vs. Apc1638N or MA mice , we investigated mechanisms of tumor progression . Using array-CGH , we identified a recurrent 5-Mb amplification on chromosome 12 in GI tumors from MPA mice . We defined the amplicon critical interval and demonstrated that it contains a previously uncharacterized member of the Transducin enhancer of Split ( TLE)/Groucho family of transcriptional co-regulators , Tle6-like , that contributes to tumor progression . Tle6-like overexpression in colon cancer cell lines increases cell proliferation , colony-formation ability , cell migration and xenograft tumorigenicity . Human TLE6D , an alternatively spliced isoform of TLE6 , with a domain structure similar to Tle6-like , has functional activity similar to Tle6-like . Both Tle6-like and TLE6D interact with GI tumor suppressor , RUNX3 [34] , and antagonize RUNX3 gene target tranactivation . TLE6D is overexpressed in multiple human microsatellite stable ( MSS) and microsatellite unstable ( MSI-H) CRCs , and TLE6D expression levels correlate with RUNX3 expression levels . Collectively , these findings provide important insights into the molecular mechanisms through which MMR-deficiency contributes to GI tumorigenesis and implicate a novel association between TLE6 isoforms and antagonism of RUNX target gene expression in CRC tumor progression . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** RUNX family genes regulate lineage and stage specific gene transcription by direct binding to DNA promoters and enhancer elements [44] ,[45] . Loss of Runx3 in the mouse results in the development of gastric mucosal hyperplasia , decreased apoptosis and attenuated TGF-β anti-proliferative signaling . Consistent with previous observations of interactions between RUNX3 and TLE family members mediated through the Runt and WD repeat domains , respectively [46] ,[48] , we detected an interaction between RUNX3 and Tle6-like/TLE6D by co-immunoprecipitation . Furthermore , we demonstrated that Tle6-like/TLE6D antagonized RUNX3 regulated transcriptional targets . However , while these experiments show an association between RUNX3∶TLE6D interactions and tumor progression , they do not demonstrate mechanistically the functional importance of this interaction in accelerating tumor progression . Alternative mRNA splicing allows multiple gene products to be produced from a single coding sequence , and through this mechanism a higher diversity of mammalian genes is generated [68] . Several distinct TLE/Grg gene alternative splice forms , such as Grg-1s , QD of TLE4 , and Grg3b [42] ,[69] ,[70] , have been reported . While the human genome does not encode a TLE6-LIKE ortholog , a structurally equivalent protein , TLE6D , is generated through alternative splicing . The observation that GI adenocarcinomas from both humans and mice use two very distinct mechanisms to amplify Tle6-like/TLE6D activity suggests a strong growth advantage and selective pressure for this TLE isoform in tumor progression . Similarly , the correlation between TLE6D and RUNX3 expression in human CRC suggests a model whereby RUNX3 inactivation by TLE6D could be an important factor driving this growth advantage in both MSI-H and MSS CRC. Future studies will be required to understand the mechanistic implications of the interaction between these two proteins in CRC progression in more precise detail . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** Materials and Methods Mouse Lines and Survival Analyses , Tumor Analysis , and Apc Mutation Analysis Wild-type ( Wt ) , Pms2+/ − and Mlh3+/ − mice were maintained on the 129 Sv/Ev genetic background and intercrossed to generate Mlh3+/−;Pms2+/ − mice as described before [13] . Apc1638N mice were backcrossed four times to 129 Sv/Ev and subsequently intercrossed with Mlh3+/− ; Pms2+/ − to generate Mlh3−/−;Apc1638N and Mlh3−/−;Pms2−/−;Apc1638N mice . Kaplan-Meier survival curves were generated and statistical significance between genotypes was determined using the Log Rank test as previously performed [13] . All lines of mice were necropsied when they became morbid or moribund . Sacrificed mice were surveyed for tumors and suspicious masses were histology analyzed as previously performed . Statistical analyses of tumor onset and incidence among the different mouse lines were performed using the Mann-Whitney test as previously described [23] ,[32] ,[33] ,[35] ,[71] ,[72] ,[73] ,[74] ,[75] ,[76] . Tumors from stomach , small intestine , and colon were cut into two parts . One part of the tumor was processed for histopathological analysis and the other part was used for DNA/RNA extractions . Genomic DNA samples were extracted using Puregene DNA Isolation kit ( Gentra Systems , Minneapolis , MN) and subjected to mutational analysis of Apc gene between codons 677–1674 as previously described [33] . Array Comparative Genomic Hybridization Analysis Genomic DNAs were isolated from tumor tissue and tail tissue from each mouse using PUREGENE DNA Isolation kit ( Gentra Systems , Minneapolis , MN) . DNAs were digested with DpnII and subsequently purified using the QIAquick PCR Purification kit ( Qiagen ) . The quality of the DNA samples was evaluated using the Agilent 2100 BioAnalyzer . The purified fragmented DNA samples were random-prime labeled with either Cy5 or Cy3 and hybridized as previously described [77] Briefly , for each labeling reaction , 2 µg of purified digested DNA were used . Each sample was dye-swap labeled for hybridization to mouse 70-mer oligonucleotide microarrays ( Agilent Technologies , Palo Alto , CA ) containing 20,281 clones . After hybridization , the arrays were scanned using an Agilent Microarray DNA scanner ( Agilent Technologies ) and the spot intensity was extracted from slide images using Agilent Feature Extraction Software 7.0. The data were further analyzed using the procedures of Automatic Data Analysis Pipeline ( ADAP ) . Only spots with fluorescence intensities statistically different from the surrounding background ( P<0.001 ) were considered reliable , taking up >85 % of total spots on the chip . For further analysis the fluorescence intensity values of reliable spots were transformed to log2 . To minimize the effect of the variations , the log2 intensity ratios of remaining spots were subjected to normalization by Lowess fitting . Gene copy number changes for each sample was calculated by taking the median of the normalized log2 intensity ratios of dye-swapped chip experiments for the corresponding sample . The gene copy numbers were ordered along chromosomes by the map positions of corresponding genes . To eliminate systematic noise , gene copy number changes ( log2Ratios ) along the chromosomes were smoothed by taking a moving median of symmetric 5-nearest neighbors , followed by Lowess fitting ( f = 0.2 ) . The mean and standard deviation ( SD ) of smoothed log2Ratios for all genes in all the samples were calculated . The copy number profiles of at least 5 consecutive genes that deviated significantly above mean+3SD were interpreted as regional gains , below mean-3SD as regional losses . The threshold for whole chromosomal gain/loss was mean±2SD. The ideograms of chromosomal aberrations were drawn using mapping information of cytogenetic bands to the mouse genome (NCBI Mapview Build 32 ) . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** Given the above unanticipated characteristics of the newly discovered mutations—especially their low frequency and high rate of heterozygosity—we performed an initial survey to characterize the epigenetic status of genes in colon cancer on a genome-wide level . To this end , we developed an expression microarray technique to characterize the spectrum of hypermethylated genes in cancers [15] . In the present paper , we have utilized our global approach to comprehensively compare the epigenetic alteration of the CAN genes in both breast and colon cancers , and included analyses in the specific breast cancer lines where individual mutations were identified by Sjoblom et al . [7] . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** Genes Targeted by Mutation and Hypermethylation Common Gene Targets of Mutation and Hypermethylation in Breast Cancer MSP and RT-PCR expression analysis of selected genes . Each set of MSP and expression analyses are labeled with the corresponding gene name . U denotes the unmethylated band , and M denotes the methylated band . In vitro methylated DNA ( IVD ) was used as a positive control for methylation . cDNA from normal breast ( NB) and normal colon (NC ) ( Figure 3 ) was used to determine the expression of the genes in normal tissue . DKO corresponds to DNMT 1/3b double knockout HCT116 cells . All RT-PCR experiments were performed in parallel without reverse transcriptase as a control , and in all cases , no PCR product was generated (unpublished data ) . The control experiment performed without RT for normal breast is shown ( NB no RT ) for each gene . RT-PCR was performed for all cancer lines with beta-actin primers to control for the amount of cDNA ( Figure 3 , bottom ) . Common Gene Targets of Mutation and Hypermethylation in Colon Cancer MSP and RT-PCR expression analysis of selected genes . Each set of MSP and expression analyses are labeled with the corresponding gene name . U denotes the unmethylated band , and M denotes the methylated band . In vitro methylated DNA ( IVD ) was used as a positive control for methylation . cDNA from normal breast ( NB) and normal colon (NC ) was used to determine the expression of the genes in normal tissue . DKO corresponds to DNMT 1/3b double knockout HCT116 cells . All RT-PCR experiments were performed in parallel without reverse transcriptase as a control , and in all cases , no PCR product was generated (unpublished data ) . The control experiment performed without RT for normal colon is shown (NC no RT ) for each gene . RT-PCR was performed for all cancer lines with beta-actin primers to control for the amount of cDNA . From the analysis of methylation and expression status of the 36 common target genes , it is clear that , although hypermethylation was accompanied by loss of gene expression in nearly all cases , loss of gene expression in the overlap genes can occur by mechanisms other than methylation ( Table S1 ) . Potential mechanisms include repressive chromatin modifications , mutational changes outside the coding regions that destabilize the mRNA , or coordinate downregulation of relevant pathways . For example , p21 expression is frequently decreased in tumors with inactivating p53 mutations [25] . To confirm our MSP results , we analyzed the methylation status of selected genes using sequencing of bisulfite-treated genomic DNA from samples that were used in the MSP studies . In all cases , bisulfite sequencing confirmed the results obtained with MSP ( Figure 4) . For another control , we also studied the methylation and expression status of the genes in a derivative of HCT116 human colon cancer cells in which the DNMT1 and DNMT3b DNA methyltransferases were homozygously deleted ( DKO cells ) . These simultaneous deletions result in nearly complete lack of DNA methylation and the promoter DNA demethylation and re-expression of all known DNA hypermethylated genes examined in these cells [26] . In all cases , the loss or absence of methylation at the promoter regions of the 36 DNA hypermethylated loci in DKO cells was associated with expression of these genes ( Figures 2 and 3 and unpublished data ) . Importantly , in all cases , these 36 overlap genes were also found to be expressed in normal colon and breast tissue ( Figures 2 and 3 and Table S1 ) . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** The above data may be particularly significant because the vast majority of CAN gene mutations identified are heterozygous missense mutations . It is possible that many of these mutations result in haploinsufficiency or cause small decreases in protein or transcript abundance that may be functionally meaningful for driving tumorigenesis . Small changes in expression of a number of tumor suppressor genes ( such as APC , SMAD4 , MSH2 , etc. ) have now been well described to have tumorigenic effects [8,29,30] . Consistent with the hemizygous nature of the mutations , it seems likely that DNA methylation deepens the haploinsufficiency status of the genes when both changes are found in the same tumor or , more often just with the epigenetic changes alone . The accompanying loss of function can compound , and thus progressively contribute to , tumorigenesis . Functional Associations of Common Target Genes Next , we analyzed the functional associations of the 18 common target genes that demonstrate cancer-specific hypermethylation . We utilized Gene Ontology ( GO ) classification and available data in the literature to describe the functional associations of the genes ( Figure 8 ) . A number of genes are involved in cell adhesion and motility and/or signal transduction . Examination of the literature revealed that at least six of these genes possess known tumor suppressive properties , defined as the ability to modulate known tumor suppressor ( i .e . , p53 , wnt , etc. ) function or inhibit cancer cell growth in vitro and/or in vivo ( Figure 8 ) . We then determined the chromosomal location of these 18 genes . We compared these chromosomal locations to those that have been shown to be deleted in primary human tumors in the literature using standard genetic mapping or comparative genomic hybridization ( CGH) . Sixteen out of 18 (89 % , next to last panel ) of these genes map to loci that have been found to be deleted in cancers ( including colon , breast , prostate , Wilm 's tumor , hematopoietic tumors , and medulloblastoma ) . For example , Yang et al . demonstrated that 19p13.3 , the location of APC2 , is a common site of LOH or deletion in breast carcinoma [31] . Similarly , SYNE1 localizes to 6p25 , a location that is subject to frequent deletion in a number of tumors [32,33] . CHD5 is a well-documented tumor suppressor gene located on 1p36 , a region that is commonly lost in malignancies of epithelial , neural , and hematopoietic origin [34] . Referenced data are summarized in Table S4 . Thus , the 18 genes we have identified are genes that are found to be mutated in breast and colon cancer , silenced by hypermethylation in these tumors , and reside at locations subject to LOH or deletion in a number of human neoplasms . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** Statistical Analyses Unpaired t test , z test , and χ2 test were used . The data were calculated with Statistica 6 ( StatSoft , Tulsa , OK , USA ) . Values are presented as arithmetrical mean ± SEM. ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** The present study describes a population based analysis of the frequency of variants of unknown significance in hMLH1 and hMSH2 in Danish patients with sporadic CRC and in a sub-cohort of controls . Some of the variants have been described in other studies , and some are , to our knowledge , new variants unique to the Danish population . We have analyzed the allele frequencies of 29 variants in hMLH1 and hMSH2 to reveal whether they cause increased susceptibility to sporadic CRC in the Danish population or whether they are private variants/mutations found only in the families where they were originally identified . In addition to the 29 variants identified in Danish individuals , six variants identified in other Caucasian populations were also investigated . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** MLH1 and MSH2 variants * identified in CRC families from other Caucasian populations than the Danish Genotyping using Single Base Extension ( SBE)-tag arrays Primer design The multiplex PCR primers were designed using Oligo 6 [22] . The PCR products were between 100 and 450 bp . The optimal annealing temperature ( Ta ) was set to ~50°C , the GC content to ~40 % and the primer Tm difference to ≤1 . The single base extension ( SBE ) primers contained 5' 20-bp 'tag ' sequences that were from the Affymetrix GeneChip ® Tag Collection . The gene specific part of the SBE primers had a Tm of ~50–60°C ( calculated using PrimerExpress 2.0)( Applied Biosystems , Foster City , CA ) . The tagged SBE primers were tested for major hairpin loop formation using Oligo6 . All variants were typed using SBE-primers for both DNA strands . The primers were synthesized by DNA Technology ( Aarhus , Denmark ) . The multiplex PCR primer and the SBE primer sequences are available on request . Multiplex PCR The multiplex PCR amplification was performed with 6–9 primer pairs per reaction . Twenty ng of genomic DNA with 0.5 μl Accuprime™ DNA polymerase ( Invitrogen , Carlsbad , CA ) , 1× Accuprime™ Buffer I , and 0.08–1 μM primers was amplified in 25 μl volumes using the following PCR conditions : 1 cycle of 95°C for 10 min ; 13 cycles of 95°C for 30 sec. , 67°C (-1°C/cycle ) for 45 sec. and 72°C for 45 sec. ; 20 cycles of 95°C for 30 sec. , 55°C for 45 sec. and 72°C for 45 sec. ; 1 cycle of 72°C for 10 min . A subset of the multiplex PCR products were analysed on a 2100 Bioanalyzer ( Agilent Technologies , Santa Clara , CA ) to test the performance of the multiplex PCR. The multiplex PCR products from each sample were pooled for further analysis . Single Base Extension ( SBE ) reaction The pooled PCR products from each sample were treated with Exonuclease I and shrimp alkaline phosphatase and used for template in the SBE reaction ( mini-sequencing ) as described by Lindross et al . [23] . The fluorescent labelled ddNTP were Cyanine 5 ( Cy5)-ddCTP , TAMRA-ddUTP , Texas Red®-5-ddATP and R110-ddGTP ( PerkinElmer Life and Analytical Sciences , Inc , Wellesley , Ma ) . Preparation of microarrays ' Anti-tag ' oligonucleotides complimentary to the 'tag ' sequences of the SBE primers modified with NH2 groups in their 3' ends , and containing a 3'-spacer of 15 T residues were coupled covalently to CodeLink Activated Slides ( Amersham Biosciences , Uppsala , Sweden ) according to manufacturer instructions . The only exception was that the 'anti-tag ' oligonucleotides were dissolved in 150 mM sodium carbonate buffer , pH 8.5 with 1 mM betaine at a concentration of 20 μM. The oligonucleotides were printed onto the slides using a VersArray ChipWriter ( BioRad , Hercules , CA ) with 3 Stealth Micro Spotting Pins ( TeleChem International Inc. , Sunnyvale , CA ) . Each slide consists of 75 sub-arrays with 13 × 12 spots in each subarray . The spots were 130–150 μM in diameter and the centre-to-centre distance between two spots was 200 μM. The 'anti-tag ' oligonucleotides were printed in duplicates in each sub-array . The spot quality was tested after each series of microarray preparation using a Cy3 labelled random oligonucleotide hybridizing to all spots on the slide independent on the 'anti-tag ' sequence . The printed slides were stored at room temperature until use . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** Linkage disequilibrium ( LD ) analysis showed high LD in the genomic regions covering hMLH1 and most of the genomic region covering hMSH2 in the Danish population . We therefore conclude that common variants in the two genes in general are not associated with susceptibility to sporadic CRC in a Danish population . The age of the cohort of cases with sporadic CRC is relatively young ( mean ~58 years ) compared to the mean age of onset of colorectal CRC in the general Danish population ( mean ~70 years ) [49] . Consequently , the results obtained in the present study do not rule out that variants in hMLH1 and hMSH2 might be associated with sporadic colorectal cancer at an older age . However , generally cancers reflecting an inherited susceptibility seem to occur in a relatively young age . Using in silico analysis several of the analyzed variants were predicted to either abolish or introduce ESEs ( data not shown ) . It has , however , been shown that only a minor fraction of the variants predicted to change ESEs in hMLH1 and hMSH2 using in silico analysis do indeed change the pre-mRNA splice pattern in vivo [14,15] . In the study by Auclair et al . , only ESEs at or close to 5' splice sites were found to cause aberrant splicing . None of the variants analysed in the present study affected 5' splice sites . Nevertheless , no final conclusions regarding splicing can be drawn from the in silico analyses . Twenty two variants were not detected in the sporadic CRC cases and in the sub-cohort . Among those were the six variants originally identified more or less frequently in other populations ( Table 2 ) . All except one variant ( c.380 A>G , p.Asn127Ser ) performed very well in the SBE-tag array assay . This rules out that failure in detecting the variants caused their absence in the present cohorts . Consequently , these six variants are not polymorphic in the Danish population . The remaining variants were rare variants in the Danish population . They were only detected in individuals with familiar CRC and some of them have been classified as pathogenic mutations or neutral variants in other populations ( see Table 2 for references ) . Four rare missense variants i .e . hMLH1 c.1379 A>C ( p.Glu460Ala ) and c.1689 A>G ( p.Ile563Met ) and , hMSH2 c.2062 A>G ( p.Met688Val ) and c.2542 G>T ( p.Ala848Ser ) were unclassified and have to our knowledge never been described previously neither in the Danish population nor in other populations . Other disease causing mutations have been identified in the families harbouring the two hMLH1 variants changing non-conserved amino acids i .e . pGlu460Ala and p.Ile563Met (unpublished results ) consequently , these variants are most likely neutral and not involved in HNPCC. However , no other disease causing mutations have been identified in the families harbouring the hMSH2 variants changing conserved amino acids i .e . p.Met688Val and p.Ala848Ser variants . Further characterization of these variants such as functional studies and segregations analysis are needed before any final conclusion can be drawn regarding their pathogenicity . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** In conclusion , high penetrance cancer susceptibility genes involved in hereditary syndromes have rarely emerged as definitive low-penetrance genes as a result of common variants increasing disease susceptibility [19] . The results shown in the present study demonstrate that the high-penetrance HNPCC genes hMLH1 and hMSH2 also do not appear to be low penetrance genes involved in sporadic CRC in the Danish population . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** Design considerations in a sib-pair study of linkage for susceptibility loci in cancer Abstract Background Modern approaches to identifying new genes associated with disease allow very fine analysis of associaton and can be performed in population based case-control studies . However , the sibpair design is still valuable because it requires few assumptions other than acceptably high penetrance to identify genetic loci . Methods We conducted simulation studies to assess the impact of design factors on relative efficiency for a linkage study of colorectal cancer . We considered two test statistics , one comparing the mean IBD probability in affected pairs to its null value of 0.5 , and one comparing the mean IBD probabilities between affected and discordant pairs . We varied numbers of parents available , numbers of affected and unaffected siblings , reconstructing the genotype of an unavailable affected sibling by a spouse and offspring , and elimination of sibships where the proband carries a mutation at another locus . Results Power and efficiency were most affected by the number of affected sibs , the number of sib pairs genotyped , and the risk attributable to linked and unlinked loci . Genotyping unaffected siblings added little power for low penetrance models , but improved validity of tests when there was genetic heterogeneity and for multipoint testing . The efficiency of the concordant-only test was nearly always better than the concordant-discordant test . Replacement of an unavailable affected sibling by a spouse and offspring recovered some linkage information , particularly if several offspring were available . In multipoint analysis , the concordant-only test was showed a small anticonservative bias at 5 cM , while the multipoint concordant-discordant test was generally the most powerful test , and was not biased away from the null at 5 cM. Conclusion Genotyping parents and unaffected siblings is useful for detecting genotyping errors and if allele frequencies are uncertain . If adequate allele frequency data are available , we suggest a single-point affecteds-only analysis for an initial scan , followed by a multipoint analysis of affected and unaffected members of all available sibships with additional markers around initial hits . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** Methods The choice of sampling schemes for a colon sibpair study requires evaluation , as several different options exist simultaneously for the sampling plan ( how many families and which relatives to sample ) , disease model ( penetrance , allele frequency , etc ) , and statistical test of linkage . These aspects , in addition to the method of generating the data sets for the simulations comprise the methods of determining an optimal design strategy for a colon sibpair study . In our analysis of design issues we have pursued a deterministic simulation approach . The first step was to check that the tests we considered had appropriate size , using extensive simulations . For those tests that were valid , we then performed a moderate number of simulations of a large number of families , to obtain the noncentrality parameters describing the behavior of each design configuration and test . We were then able to compare the attributes of these studies across the different design configurations genetic models and tests by fitting regression models , as further described below . Disease Model Parameter Choices Genetic Heterogeneity The genetic basis of many complex human diseases , including some common cancers , is known to include mutations in loci that confer a high penetrance to carriers . In order to minimize the impact that such genetic heterogeneity may have on the statistical efficiency to identify novel loci , gene-hunting studies are often restricted to those cases that have been determined not to be related to any known susceptibility locus . For example , the second susceptibility locus for breast cancer , BRCA2 , was mapped by Wooster et al . [37] based on high-risk families for whom BRCA1 linkage was excluded . Genetic syndromes such as juvenile polyposis , Peutz-Jeghers syndrome and familial adenomatous polyposis can be readily eliminated prior to sample collection on the basis of phenotypic characteristics . However , mutations in mismatch repair ( MMR ) loci such as hMSH2 or hMLH1 cannot be excluded without performing molecular studies . ( Measures of tumor microsatellite instability or immunohistochemistry can be helpful in identifying likely carriers , but are neither fully sensitive nor specific . ) Estimating the proportion of affected families that might be excluded from analysis because they carry MMR mutations is difficult . Population-based estimates of the prevalence of germ-line MMR mutations among subjects diagnosed with colorectal cancer vary widely even within populations of European descent [38-41] , and only a few estimates are available for other ethnic groups [42,43] . Moreover , recruiting from high-risk clinics may lead to disproportionate over-representation of families who have MMR mutations . One large study in Finland [44] found that 12 % of affected sib pairs ( ASP) showed MMR defects . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** The number of families F required for a desired level of power sample was calculated in the standard way [59] by solving Zα+Z1−βF=ZsimFsim for F , where Zα and Z1-β are the quantiles of the standard normal distribution for selected values of α and β , and Zsim is the sample mean of the Z-scores ( Zc or Zp ) based on the sample size Fsim of the simulation run . Comparison of Sampling Strategies The relative efficiency and absolute power comparisons were evaluated over a range of assumptions about disease allele frequency , penetrance , and heterogeneity . Summaries are provided for the relative efficiency from the non-null simulations of each combination of parameters and sample sizes required to attain 80 % power . Our simulations involved the manipulation of 16 parameters , with over 725,000 possible combinations arising just among the limited set of settings we chose for each parameter . In practice , we were able to simulate 20 replicates for 332 actual parameter combinations . In order to assess the impact of each variable parameter setting on the power and efficiency of each study design , and to facilitate generalization of our results to other similar situations that we did not specifically simulate , we constructed linear regression models of the square root of the per-family contribution to the noncentrality parameter ( Zsim/Fsim ) and ARE estimates resulting from each simulation as a function of the simulation parameters . Residuals from the models were approximately normally distributed , and scale-location plots did not suggest the data were heteroscedastic . We evaluated the fit of alternative regression models with quadratic , inverse , or logarithmic transformations of both the predictor and outcome variables ; none fit the observed data better than a simple linear multiple regression model . The proportion of variance in ZsimFsim explained by the linear regression ( R2 ) ranged from 70–75 % . The open source statistical package R [60] was used to perform all regression analyses . In order to facilitate interpretation , the genetic effects ( baseline disease prevalence , allele frequencies , and relative risks of the linked and unlinked loci) were collapsed into "attributable risks " ( AR ) for the linked and unlinked loci respectively . The attributable risk is the proportion of the total disease risk attributable to variation at each genetic locus . The fit of linear regression models employing the two AR values is as good as those employing the five original terms to fit the data , using the Akaike Information Criterion ( not shown ; [61] ) . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** Effect of design and population parameters or non-centrality parameters Multiple linear regression of Z/F on simulation parameters . aStandard error of Estimate ; bNumber available for Zc , number genotyped for Zp ; cIndicator variable . In general , the effects on power of changes to the genetic and design parameters were very similar for the discordant test . Increasing the number of unaffected sibs typed did yield a small increase in power , but increasing the number of affected sibs , parents or offspring proxies increased power by a larger amount , even with the discordant pair test . The effect of experimental screening for the unlinked syndrome varied substantially depending on the relative magnitude of the effects of the unlinked syndrome : if the unlinked syndrome had an attributable risk greater than or equal to that of the linked syndrome , experimental screening resulted in a large increase in power . Otherwise , the effect of experimental screening was negligible . Power for a given sample size F and test size α with a specified combination of design and genetic parameters can be derived from the regression models in Table 5 by first obtaining an estimate of the noncentrality parameter Z/F from the appropriate column of Table 4 , multiplying by F to obtain z^ , and then solving for β in the equation below : β=Φ( Zα−z^ ) , where β is the probability of Type II error ( hence power is 1-β ) and Φ(z ) is the cumulative standard normal distribution . A script for computing the predicted power for any particular combination of these parameters , using the statistical languages S-plus or R is also available from the website [65] . Figures 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 show estimated power of the Zc test for varying sample sizes given several values of AR for the linked and unlinked loci , recombination fraction ( θ ) , number of parents genotyped , and number of offspring proxies . Except as noted , the power estimates are based on the following settings of the genetic and design parameters : two total affected sibs , both sampled , two unaffected sibs ( not sampled ) , no parents or offspring proxies , AR1 ( linked locus ) = 0.1 , AR2 (unlinked locus ) = 0.05 , θ = 0.05 , and no screening to exclude unlinked families . Effect of sample size and varying attributable risk at the linked locus on estimated power . Effect of sample size and varying attributable risk at the unlinked locus on estimated power . Effect of sample size and varying recombination fraction on estimated power . Effect of sample size and varying number of typed parents on estimated power . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** Effect of varying number of offspring proxies on power for families of two affected siblings . Effect of sample size and varying numbers of offspring proxies ( 1 or 2 ) on estimated power , families with two affected sibs , with only one available for genotyping ( 1 or 2 ) , compared with families with both affected sibs available for genotyping ( S = 2 ) . Effect of varying number of offspring proxies on power for families of three affected siblings . Effect of sample size and varying numbers of offspring proxies ( O ) on estimated power , families with three affected sibs , with only two available for genotyping ( O = 0, 1 , or 2 ) , compared with families with all three affected sibs available for genotyping ( S = 3 ) . Relative Efficiency of Alternative Designs Because the power of the discordant test was rarely much greater than that of the concordant test , and the concordant test requires genotyping of only the affected sibs , the ARE of the concordant test was always greater on average than that of the discordant test . Nevertheless , we were interested in specific combinations of design and genetic parameters that might have resulted in better relative efficiency for the discordant test . Overall , the ARE for the discordant test was larger than that for the concordant test in 13 % of the replications . We used a logistic regression model with the same parameters as those in Tables 2 , 3 and 4 to predict the probability that Zp would outperform Zc in terms of relative efficiency ( not shown ) . Only under circumstances that would result in very low power , such as attributable risks for the unlinked locus more than twice as large as attributable risks for the linked locus , or recombination fractions > 0.1 , was Zp predicted to outperform Zc in our simulated sample of 500 families . In principle , including genotype data from unaffected siblings can improve the ability to estimate haplotypes and thereby improve power when multipoint data are studied . Table 6 compares estimates of Zc and Zp for a selected set of simulations with multipoint Zm scores for the same families as calculated by the computer program Merlin [58] . In these simulations , when markers were spaced no closer than 10 cM from one another , as is usually the case in an initial genome scan , we observed no improvement in power with the concordant multipoint statistic , but an improvement in power with the discordant test . When markers were spaced at 5 cM intervals , however , the power of both multipoint statistics to detect linkage exceeded that of both Zc and Zp . The conservative bias of Zmc noted in Tables 2 and 3 appears to decrease as marker intervals become smaller . To test this , we conducted additional simulations under the null hypothesis as described above for Tables 2 and 3 , with 1000 repetitions and markers spaced at 5 , 10 , and 20 cM. The magnitude of the conservative bias in Zmc decreases consistently ( mean Zmc = -0.58 at 20 cM , -0.23 at 10 cM , and 0.06 at 5 cM ) as marker intervals contract , becoming significantly anti-conservative at 5 cM. ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** Discussion In studying a disease like colon cancer with both incomplete penetrance and a high incidence of sporadics , prior studies have shown that to be efficient , families must include two or more individuals with the same disease from whom samples can be obtained . The practical experience of many investigators suggests that once an initial entree is gained into a family , the chances of enrolling other members are quite high . Close relatives are often very motivated to participate in research into a disease that has afflicted their family , especially when the commitment is minimal , involving only a blood specimen and a signed consent , which are all that are required for a linkage study of diseases that have an easily established phenotype , like cancer . In our simulations , we considered inclusion of unaffected sibs and the use of spouse and offspring to replace missing affected sibs . Including unaffected siblings in the design of a study can improve the power to detect linkage for highly-penetrant diseases [53,66] . However , our simulation studies demonstrate that for the model-free linkage tests we studied , for low penetrance loci , and with no genotyping error , little increase in power can be gained by including unaffected siblings in the design of a sib-pair study of a late onset , complex disease such as colorectal cancer . The inclusion of unaffected siblings can be useful , however , in reducing anti-conservative biases arising from heterogeneity or misspecification of marker allele frequencies or genotyping errors , and conservative biases arising if multipoint statistics are used with an insufficiently dense marker set . Table 2 shows that , with markers spaced at 10 cM intervals , Zmc is conservatively biased , while exhibiting an anticonservative bias in Table 3 under conditions of heterogeneity in marker allele frequencies . In Table 6 , Zmp outperforms with markers spaced at 10 and 20 cM. At 5 cM , Zmc becomes anticonservatively biased , as noted above . It may be useful to perform simulations to assess the characteristics of the tests when the marker spacing decreases , as would be possible with the newer SNP array-based platforms . Further , since genome-wide-association studies do not utilize the full power of the sibpair design , future research should be aimed at assessing the optimal setting for relying on the sibpair design , as it is premature to move completely away from this study design [15] . If a secondary goal of a study is to estimate the penetrance , then unaffected relatives should be included in the design of the study ; also unaffected siblings could help in evaluating the impact of environmental factors upon disease risk . Genotyping errors for microsatellites scans are currently very low but are hard to assess without the availability of parents or siblings . Our findings parallel those of Holmans et al . [67] , who suggested that genotyping affected individuals only is efficient . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** Crude stratification by recruitment center is unlikely to be reliable enough for controlling population heterogeneity without additional adjustment . Stratification by ethnicity is generally more crucial than by geography , although both factors should ideally be incorporated . However , collection of ethnicity is not entirely trivial if it is to be worthwhile . Although various coding systems have been established by different agencies , no consensus has been established regarding the level of detail required on ethnicity data in genetic research , e.g . category distinctions , mixed-race marriages . Mandal et al . [81] have shown that marker allele frequencies are less important if there are four or more persons per family , especially when very polymorphic markers are used . When the parents of the sibpair have been genotyped , then there is no dependence on population marker allele frequencies and no source of bias in linkage analysis . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** CpG Island Methylation in Familial Colorectal Cancer Patients Not Fulfilling the Amsterdam Criteria Abstract To determine the role of methylation in colorectal cancer patients with a family history , we enrolled 25 colorectal cancer patients with a family history of colorectal cancer but without a mutation in the hMLH1 and hMSH2 genes . Thirty patients with sporadic colorectal cancer were included as control . The methylation status of COX2 , MGMT , hMLH1 , TIMP3 , p16 , and MINT2 in normal mucosa and tumor were assessed using methylation-specific PCR. In patients with a family history , the methylation frequency ranged from 4.0 % for TIMP3 to 44.4 % for MGMT , whereas , in patients with sporadic colorectal cancer , it ranged from 6.7 % for TIMP3 to 50.0 % for p16 . Nine of the 25 patients with family history ( 36.0 % ) were classified as methylation-prone , and nine of the 30 patients with sporadic cancers ( 30.0 % ) were as methylation-prone , making their methylation indices 0.19 and 0.16 , respectively ( p=0.522 ) . As for the individual genes , the methylation rate of MGMT was higher in colorectal cancer patients with family history ( 44.0 % vs. 13.0 % , p=0.016 ) , whereas the methylation rate of p16 was higher in sporadic colorectal cancers ( 50.0 % vs. 8.7 % , p=0.046 ) . While CpG island methylation of tumor suppressor genes may play a role in colorectal carcinogenesis , the genes involved may be different between tumors of patients with and without a family history of colorectal cancer . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** RESULTS Methylation in colorectal cancer patients with family history We determined CpG island methylation at six loci and MSI in paired normal mucosa and tumor tissue from 25 colorectal cancer patients with family history . Of the 25 tumors , 16 ( 64.0 % ) showed promoter methylation of at least one gene , ranging to four genes . Seven tumors showed methylation at one gene , seven at two genes , one at three genes , and one at four genes . In contrast , of the 25 samples of normal colonic mucosa , 12 ( 48.0 % ) showed promoter methylation : eight samples at one gene , and four samples at two genes . When patients with a family history were categorized as having 0-1 ( MR group ) or ≥2 ( MP group ) methylated loci , we found that 36.0 % of the tumors and 16.0 % of the normal mucosa samples could be categorized as MP. The mean methylation index ( the number of methylated loci divided by the total number of tested loci) was 0.11 (0-0.33 ) in normal mucosa and 0.19 (0-0.66 ) in tumors ( p=0.078 ) . A high proportion of tumors ( 44.0 % ) were methylated at the MGMT locus , whereas 20.0 % , 20.0 % , and 16.0 % were methylated at the COX2 , hMLH1 , and MINT2 loci , respectively . In contrast , only 8.0 % of p16 loci and 4.0 % of TIMP3 loci were methylated ( Fig . 2 ) . We found that the COX2 , MGMT , and p16 loci were methylated at 28.0 % , 20.0 % , and 16.0 % , respectively , of normal mucosa samples of patients with a family history , whereas the hMLH1 , TIMP3 , and MINT2 loci were not methylated in any of the normal mucosa samples . The frequency of methylation of the COX2 and p16 loci was higher in normal mucosa than in tumor , but the difference did not reach a statistical significance . Methylation in sporadic colorectal cancer patients We also assayed CpG island methylation at these six loci and MSI in paired tumors and normal mucosa from 30 patients with sporadic colorectal cancer . We found that 16 ( 53.0 % ) of the tumors showed promoter methylation of at least one gene , ranging to three genes . Seven tumors showed methylation at one locus , six at two loci , and one at three loci . In contrast , only 7 ( 23.0 % ) of the normal colonic mucosa samples showed promoter methylation , each at one gene . We found that 30.0 % of the tumors , and none of the normal mucosa , could be classified as MP. The mean methylation index was 0.04 (0-0.17 ) in normal mucosa and 0.16 (0-0.5 ) in tumors ( p<0.001 ) . Methylation of the p16 locus was observed in a high proportion ( 33.3 % ) of sporadic tumors cases , whereas methylation of the COX2 , MGMT , and MINT2 loci were observed in 20.0 % , 13.3 % , and 13.3 % , respectively , of these tumors . In contrast , only 6.7 % of tumors were methylated at the TIMP3 promoter ( Fig . 3 ) . Methylation of the p16 , COX2 , and MGMT loci were observed in 13.3 % , 6.7 % , and 3.4 % , respectively , of the normal mucosa samples , whereas we did not observe methylation of the hMLH1 , TIMP3 , and MINT2 loci in any of these tissues . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** Several reports have described an association between the methylation status of multiple genes and a familial tendency to colorectal cancer ( 15 , 28 ) . A recent large study , however , found no evidence that patients with heavily methylated colorectal cancers were more likely to develop a second malignancy or have a positive family history of cancer ( 29 ) . Aberrant methylation may result from an inherited defect in the methylation apparatus . In this study , considerable proportions of cancer in both groups with or without familial history of colorectal cancer presented the methylated genes that may involved in carcinogenetic pathways . It still remains to be elucidated whether promoter methylation in multiple genes is one of main mechanism to evoke cancer or simple bystander . However , our results confirm that CpG island promoter methylation may be a universal event in sporadic or familial colorectal cancer , and is suggested as one of the mechanisms for 'second hits ' by which tumor suppressor genes are inactivated . Evidence for this mechanism in familial colorectal cancers was previously reported in studies showing aberrant methylation of individual genes , including CDH1 , VHL , and hMLH1 , in hereditary cancer syndromes ( 30-32 ) . Cancer is a genetic disease . Most cancer-causing mutations are somatic , occurring in the affected tissue during the course of carcinogenesis . However , most cancers also have a hereditary component , caused by predisposing mutations that affect the germline , are heritable , contribute to the initiation of carcinogenesis , and influence the carcinogenesis pathway . Although hypermethylation is not a rare event , either in sporadic colorectal cancers or in colorectal cancers with family history , predisposing germline alterations can affect detailed aspects of methylation . Our data showed two of the genes methylated at their promoters , p16 and MGMT , differ according to the tumor type . These findings suggest that the methylation of p16 , leading to its loss of function , may be a dominant and necessary event for sporadic colorectal carcinogenesis , whereas methylation of MGMT may be dominant and necessary in colorectal carcinogenesis in individuals with a family history . It was reported that the frequency and pattern of gene methylation varied between HNPCC syndrome and sporadic adenomas , implying differences in the molecular pathogenesis of tumors ( 33 ) . MGMT has been considered as a critical step of genetic instability and methylation of MGMT are proposed to show a distinctive phenotype of MSI-L or mild family history of colorectal cancer ( 34 , 35 ) . The present study also showed a possibility that different pathways to cancer may exit according to the molecular background and some subgroup of familial colorectal cancer are related to the loss of function of MGMT. Thus , genes selected for methylation-induced functional loss may differ according to the genetic background . While methylation seems to be a universal mechanism by which gene function is inactivated , the germline mutations in familial tumors confer a selective advantage for their tumorigenic growth , but other genetic and epigenetic lesions are also necessary . Genetic predisposition to CpG island methylation may be a modifying factor that contributes to the penetrance of HNPCC. Our findings thus expand these early observations on methylation in familial colorectal cancer and highlight the selective advantage of epigenetic gene silencing . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** Impact of BRAF , MLH1 on the incidence of microsatellite instability high colorectal cancer in populations based study Abstract We have identified an alternative pathway of tumorigenesis in sporadic colon cancer , involving microsatellite instability due to mismatched repair methylation , which may be driven by mutations in the BRAF gene ( V600E ) . Colorectal cancer ( CRC ) is the most common cancer in the world , and African Americans show a higher incidence than other populations in the United States . We analyzed sporadic CRCs in Omani ( of African origin , N = 61 ) , Iranian ( of Caucasian origin , N = 53 ) and African American ( N = 95 ) patients for microsatellite instability , expression status of mismatched repair genes ( hMLH1 , hMSH2 ) and presence of the BRAF ( V600E ) mutation . In the Omani group , all tumors with BRAF mutations were located in the left side of the colon , and for African Americans , 88 % [7 ] of tumors with BRAF mutations were found in the right side of the colon . In African Americans , 31 % of tumors displayed microsatellite instability at two or more markers ( MSI-H) , while this rate was 26 % and 13 % for tumors in the Iranian and Omani groups , respectively . A majority of these MSI-H tumors were located in the proximal colon ( right side ) in African American and Iranian subjects , whereas most were located in the distal colon ( left side ) in Omani subjects . Defects in hMLH1 gene expression were found in 77 % of MSI-H tumors in both African Americans and Iranians and in 38 % of tumors in Omanis . BRAF mutations were observed in all subjects : 10 % of tumors in African Americans ( 8/8 2 ) , 2 % of tumors in Iranians ( 1/53 ) , and 19 % of tumors in Omanis ( 11/59 ) . Our findings suggest that CRC occurs at a younger age in Omani and Iranian patients , and these groups showed a lower occurrence of MSI-H than did African American patients . Our multivariate model suggests an important and significant role of hMLH1 expression and BRAF mutation in MSI-H CRC in these populations . The high occurrence of MSI-H tumors in African Americans may have significant implications for treatment , since patients with MSI-H lesions display a different response to chemotherapeutic agents such as 5-fluorouracil . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** In the present study , we analyzed samples from two different populations of African descent ( African American and Omani ) and a Caucasian population ( Iranian ) for microsatellite instability and BRAF mutations . We correlated our findings with the silencing of genes involved in DNA MMR. We evaluated and compared the demographic and clinicopathological data in relation to molecular alterations in specific genes ( BRAF , DNA MMR ) to improve our understanding of colon tumorgenesis in people living in different environments . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** Methods Patients A total of 95 African American CRC patients ( from Howard University and Johns Hopkins Hospital between 1997 and 2004 ; self-identified as African American ) , 61 Omani CRC patients ( from the two tertiary referral hospitals in Oman Sultan Qaboos University Hospital and the Royal Hospital between 2000 and 2004 who underwent surgical resection ) and 53 Iranian CRC patients ( from the two referral hospitals in Shiraz , Iran Namazi Hospital and Saadi Hospital ) were included in this study . Formalin-fixed , paraffin-embedded archival tissue was collected ( with approval from all above sites ' Institutional Review Boards ) and clinical data was obtained ( including race , age , site of primary tumor , mucin production and tumor differentiation ) . In addition , the family history of cancer was analyzed to identify those pedigrees that met either the Amsterdam I or Amsterdam II criteria for HNPCC. The study was performed on unselected and serially collected specimens . All cases underwent surgery within the given collection . DNA isolation and MSI analysis Archived and fresh tumor blocks were cut into 5-μm sections on Superfrost slides ( Fisher Scientific , Pittsburgh , PA ) . The tumor and normal area were diagnosed by a pathologist using the H&E matched slide and microdissected to pinpoint the tumor areas as well as normal areas from at least two slides . A pinpoint DNA extraction kit was used as recommended by the manufacturers ( Zymo Research ) . The extracted tumor and normal matched DNA were used as template in PCR reactions where five microsatellite markers ( Cancer Research 58:5248–5257 , 1998 ;[21] ; BAT25 , BAT26 , D17S250 , D5S346 and D2S123 ) were used to evaluate MSI status . PCR products were analyzed in a 3130 ABI GeneScan . Those displaying DNA instability at only one of the markers ( including the dinucleotides ) were labeled MSI-L , those displaying instability with two or more markers were labeled MSI-H, and those displaying no instability with any of the five markers tested were labeled MSS. Due to unclear characteristics of MSI-L , we combined MSS and MSI-L as one group ( non-MSI-H) . Methylation-specific PCR The presence or absence of hMLH1 and p16 methylation in cancers was determined by comparing the signals from tumor-derived tissues with those from normal , non-cancerous tissues , as previously described [3,4] . DNA was extracted from the samples using a Gentra DNA extraction kit ( Gentra ) and was modified using DNA modification kits as recommended by the manufacturers ( Zymo Research ) . MSP was used to distinguish unmethylated from methylated alleles , based on sequence alterations produced by bisulfite treatment of DNA , to convert unmethylated cytosines to uracil . These changes are identified by subsequent PCR using primers specific to the methylated (unchanged ) or unmethylated ( changed ) DNA . Briefly , 1 μg of genomic DNA was denatured by treatment with NaOH and was modified by the addition of sodium bisulfite . DNA samples were purified using Wizard DNA purification resin according to the manufacturer 's instructions ( Promega ) . These DNA samples were again treated with NaOH , then precipitated with ethanol and resuspended in water . PCR reactions were performed using the primer pairs described below in the following reaction mix : 10× PCR buffer [16.6 mM ammonium sulfate , 67 mM Tris ( pH 8.8 ) , 6.7 mM MgCl2 , and 10 mM 2-mercaptoethanol] , dNTPs ( each at 1.25 mM) , primers ( 50 pmol each per reaction ) , and bisulfite-modified DNA ( 50 ng ) in a final volume of 50 μl . Reactions were hot-started at 95°C for 5 min , after which 1.25 units of Taq polymerase ( Life Technologies , Inc. ) were added . Amplification was carried out in an Applied Biosystem temperature cycler for 40 cycles ( 30 sec at 95°C , 30 sec at 59°C then 30 sec at 72°C ) , followed by a final 4-min extension at 72°C. Two sets of primers were used simultaneously to check for methylated or unmethylated CpG islands at the level of hMLH1 and p16 promoters . The primer sequences were as in our previous study [4] . Controls for methylated and unmethylated DNA were DNA from the SW48 colon cancer cell line and normal lymphocytes , respectively . Each PCR reaction product ( 10 μl ) was directly loaded into a 2 % agarose gel , which was later stained with ethidium bromide to allow DNA visualization under UV illumination . The presence of a band in unmethylated tumor and matched normal with the absence of a methylation band in the tumor was defined as unmethylated . However , when a methylated band was present for tumor and absent for the normal , we defined the sample as methylated ( or semi-methylated if both unmethylated or methylated bands were present in the tumor ) . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** Multivariate analysis for the risk factors associated with MSI-H occurrence ( Model including single term and interactions effect ) * indicates the interaction term between two variables . Correlation between hMLH1 protein expression and MSI status Expression of the hMLH1 and hMSH2 nuclear proteins was examined immunohistochemically in paraffin-embedded tissue sections [4] . In all cases , non-neoplastic cells displayed positive nuclear staining for both hMLH1 and hMSH2 . The nuclear stained slides were read by two different pathologists , and normal tissue on slides where no primary antibody stained was used as negative control . In total , 76 African American , 61 Omani , and 25 Iranian cases were analyzed . Thirty-five and 11 % of African American tumors assayed showed loss of staining for hMLH1 and hMSH2 , respectively . Moreover , loss of hMLH1 and hMSH2 staining was observed in 77 % and 5 % of MSI-H African American tumors , respectively ( Table 1 ) . The loss of hMLH1 and hMSH2 staining was observed in 17 % and 13 % of non-MSI-H African American tumors , respectively ( Table 1 ) . In Omani tumors : 38 % ( n = 3 ) of the MSI-H tumors showed absences of hMLH1 expression ( Table 2 ) ; 30 % ( n = 16 ) of the non-MSI-H tumors had negative hMLH1 . Fifty-six cases of Omani patient tested for the presence of hMSH2 protein by immunohistochemical staining , seven Omani cases were MSI-H. In Iranian patients , 77 % [10] of the MSI-H tumors were negative for hMLH1 expression ( Table 3 ) ; all of non-MSI-H tumors were positive for hMLH1 expression , while for hMSH2 these figures were 8 % [1 ] and 0, respectively . In multivariate analysis , including the interaction terms , the hMLH1 expression has a significant preventive effect on MSI-H occurrence ( OR = 0.13(0.04–0.41 ) ; p < 0.0001 ; ( Table 4) ) . Correlation between BRAF mutation and MSI status Samples were analyzed for the presence of a point mutation that frequently occurs in the oncogene BRAF leading to the change of valine to glutamic acid at position 600 of the BRAF protein . In all samples only 10 % [8 ] African American , 19 % [11] Omani and 2 % [1 ] Iranian samples displayed the mutation by sequencing ( Table 1 , 2 , 3 ) . In the MSI-H group , the BRAF mutation was 32 % [7 ] in African Americans , 25 % [2 ] in Omani , and 7 % [1 ] in Iranian , respectively . Eighteen percent and 2 % of non-MSI-H tumors carry the BRAF mutation in African Americans and Omanis , respectively , while none of the Iranians carried a BRAF mutation in this group . A BRAF mutation is a significant risk factor for MSI-H occurrence even after controlling for other factors in the multivariate model ( OR = 12.11( 2.82–52.03 ) ; p = 0.001 ; ( Table 4) ) . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** Discussion DNA MMR gene silencing and/or mutation are the main factors leading to accumulation of mutations within genes and general genome instability [19] . The MSI phenotype resulting from such alterations is one of the early events leading to the development of certain cancers . It occurs in patients with Lynch syndrome and in those that acquire such alterations somatically [24] . Another event occurring in adenoma polyp is mutation in oncogenes , specifically in K-ras and BRAF genes in the case of colon cancer [24-26] . The linkage between BRAF mutations and MSI was previously reported [27-30] . In general , Omani people have a mixed Asian and African ethnic background [10] and Iranians are of Caucasian ethnicity . Here we demonstrate that in African Americans , Omanis and Iranians , the MSI phenotype occurs in 31 % , 26 % and 13 % of CRC tumors , respectively . In addition , the locations of the tumors in African Americans and Iranians were primarily proximal compared to distal for Omanis ; and BRAF mutations were more prevalent in Omanis than African Americans or Iranians ( 19 % , 10 % and 2 % , respectively ) . While the MSI phenotype in this sample of African Americans is less than we previously reported ( 43–45 % ) , [3,4] it appears to be more prevalent in African Americans than in others and still high in the general US population [31-33] . The current sample contained more African Americans and more right-sided than left-sided tumors . The MSI phenotype was more common in proximal tumors than in distal ones ( p = 0.47 ) , strengthening earlier findings of such an association [31-33] . The prevalence of MSI-H tumors indicates the importance of BRAF mutations , particularly in the African Americans , since they represent a higher mutation profile than Iranians and Omanis . This finding suggests that , at least within the MSI-H group of patients , the BRAF V600E mutation in exon 15 is the major event leading to tumor development . In addition , the distal location of Omani MSI-H tumors may also play an important role in the presentation of the disease compared to proximal ones in the African American and Iranian populations . The lower frequency of MSI-H tumors observed in Omani patients could be related to the higher frequency of the distal location . This needs to be verified in a larger sample size . The absence of hMLH1 expression was more pronounced in MSI-H tumors from African American and Iranian patients ( 77 % of tumors in these groups showed no hMLH1 expression ) . However , for Omanis , the moderate hMLH1expression ( 62 % ) in MSI-H may indicate some other defects in the component of base excision repair ( Oxidative DNA damaged markers such as 8-hydroxyguanosine ) , or distinct lymphangiogenic phenotype associated with MSI other than in mismatch repair genes . The tumors that we have studied included MSI-H tumors that were negative using immunohistochemistry for hMLH1 . This incidence is less than compared to that described in the literature ( 77 % [34] ) , although the numbers described are small . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** Survival of hereditary non-polyposis colorectal cancer patients compared with sporadic colorectal cancer patients Abstract Background Patients with hereditary non-poliposys colorectal cancer ( HNPCC ) have better prognosis than sporadic colorectal cancer ( CRC ) . Aim of our retrospective study was to compare the overall survival between sporadic CRC and HNPCC patients . Methods We analyzed a cohort of 40 ( 25 males and 15 females ) HNPCC cases with a hospital consecutive series of 573 ( 312 males and 261 females ) sporadic CRC observed during the period 1970–1993 . In 15 HNPCC patients we performed mutational analysis for microsatellite instability . Survival rates were calculated by Kaplan-Meier method and compared with log rank test . Results The median age at diagnosis of the primary CRC was 46.8 years in the HNPCC series versus 61 years in sporadic CRC group . In HNPCC group 85 % had a right cancer location , vs. 57 % in the sporadic cancer group . In the sporadic cancer group 61.6 % were early-stages cancer ( Dukes ' A and B) vs. 70 % in the HNPCC group ( p = ns ) . The crude 5-years cumulative survival after the primary CRC was 94.2 % in HNPCC patients vs. 75.3 % in sporadic cancer patients ( p < 0.0001 ) . Conclusion Our results show that overall survival of colorectal cancer in patients with HNPCC is better than sporadic CRC patients . The different outcome probably relates to the specific tumorigenesis involving DNA mismatch repair dysfunction . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** Background Colorectal cancer is one of the most common neoplasm in humans [1,2] . It 's known that a definite fraction , ranging between 1 and 5 % of all cases of colorectal tumors , is transmitted from one generation to another in accordance with an autosomal dominant model ; this is the case of Hereditary Non-Polyposis Colorectal Cancer ( HNPCC ) and of Familial Adenomatous Polyposis ( FAP ) [2] . HNPCC is an autosomal dominant disease characterized by early appearance of cancer usually of the right colon , frequent occurrence of multiple lesions ( both synchronous and metachronous ) and a striking association with tumours of other organs , in particular endometrium , urinary tract , ovary , stomach and small bowel . The Amsterdam criteria , currently used for the diagnosis of HNPCC , were introduced in 1989 to provide a uniform evaluation of familial and personal history . They were revised in 1999 and included various extra-colonic tumours : 1 ) at least three or more relatives with histological verified tumour in the spectrum of HNPCC , one of whom is a first-degree relative of the other two ; 2 ) at least two generations should be affected ; 3 ) one or more tumours diagnosed when under the age of 50 years ; 4 ) FAP should be excluded [3,4] . Colorectal tumours with microsatellite instability ( MS I phenotype ) have mutations in mismatch repair ( MMR ) genes and in particular in the MSH2 and MLH1 genes , respectively found on chromosome arms 2p and 3p [5-9] . These mutations lead to inactivation of the genes and thus to a defect in replication/repair of DNA and an accumulation in the cancer cell genome of ubiquitous somatic clonal mutations [10] . Constitutional mutations of MMR genes are found in 50–70 % of hereditary non-polyposis colorectal cancer ( HNPCC ) and in the Muir-Torre syndrome ; 90 % of them MLH1 and MSH2 positive [11,12] . A certain proportion (around 12–15 % ) of sporadic colon cancers also display MSI phenotype [13-17] . Otherwise , MSI seems to be important in the development of various human cancer such as sporadic endometrial cancer [18] and oral squamous cell carcinoma [19] . Colorectal cancer ( CRC ) in HNPCC more often have a better prognosis than in sporadic colorectal carcinoma [3,4,20-22] , but it has been unclear whether this could be due to difference in stage at diagnosis or to a more favourable prognosis of cancer in HNPCC and FAP. The aim of our retrospective study was to compare stage and overall survival between patients with hereditary and sporadic colorectal cancer patients . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** Conclusion In conclusion , our findings appear to confirm previous studies [30,31] which detected that an improved survival for colon cancer in HNPCC , compared to sporadic CRC , usually occur . In fact , our series of HNPCC patients reveals a marked overall survival advantage , which persisted also after stratification by Dukes ' stage . Therefore , survival of HNPCC patients not always depends on an early diagnosis , but probably also on distinct biologic features . In this context , MSI mutation pattern plays an important prognostic role since colon cancer with MSI has a better prognosis than tumours without MSI. A large series of HNPCC should be examined to confirm this data . Furthermore , we need more information about MSI in all kind of colorectal carcinomas , in order to establish postoperative surveillance thus improving patients ' prognosis and allowing clinicians to plan more accurate and targeted therapy . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** Mutation Rates of and Coding Microsatellites in Human Cells with Defective DNA Mismatch Repair Abstract Microsatellite instability promotes colonic tumorigenesis through generating frameshift mutations at coding microsatellites of tumor suppressor genes , such as TGFBR2 and ACVR2 . As a consequence , signaling through these TGFβ family receptors is abrogated in DNA Mismatch repair ( MMR)-deficient tumors . How these mutations occur in real time and mutational rates of these human coding sequences have not previously been studied . We utilized cell lines with different MMR deficiencies ( hMLH1−/− , hMSH6−/− , hMSH3−/− , and MMR-proficient ) to determine mutation rates . Plasmids were constructed in which exon 3 of TGFBR2 and exon 10 of ACVR2 were cloned +1 bp out of frame , immediately after the translation initiation codon of an enhanced GFP ( EGFP ) gene , allowing a −1 bp frameshift mutation to drive EGFP expression . Mutation-resistant plasmids were constructed by interrupting the coding microsatellite sequences , preventing frameshift mutation . Stable cell lines were established containing portions of TGFBR2 and ACVR2 , and nonfluorescent cells were sorted , cultured for 7–35 days , and harvested for flow cytometric mutation detection and DNA sequencing at specific time points . DNA sequencing revealed a −1 bp frameshift mutation ( A9 in TGFBR2 and A7 in ACVR2 ) in the fluorescent cells . Two distinct fluorescent populations , M1 ( dim , representing heteroduplexes ) and M2 ( bright , representing full mutants ) were identified , with the M2 fraction accumulating over time . hMLH1 deficiency revealed 11 ( 5.91×10−4 ) and 15 ( 2.18×10−4 ) times higher mutation rates for the TGFBR2 and ACVR2 microsatellites compared to hMSH6 deficiency , respectively . The mutation rate of the TGFBR2 microsatellite was ∼3 times higher in both hMLH1 and hMSH6 deficiencies than the ACVR2 microsatellite . The −1 bp frameshift mutation rates of TGFBR2 and ACVR2 microsatellite sequences are dependent upon the human MMR background . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** Colon cancer cell models highlight the relationship between defective DNA MMR and TGFBR2 and ACVR2 frameshift mutations . Both genes commonly have a −1 bp frameshift mutation with defective MMR. Restoration of wild type ( WT ) TGFBR2 and ACVR2 by chromosome transfer reveals growth suppression in the cells and slower growth in xenografts in nude mice [22] , [23] . Interestingly , HCT116+chr3 cells , which have two mutant hMLH1 and two mutant TGFBR2 alleles plus one WT hMLH1 and one WT TGFBR2 allele , express ∼33 % WT TGFBR2 mRNA and ∼67 % mutant TGFBR2 mRNA (unpublished data ) . On the other hand , HCT116+chr2 cells , which have two mutant hMLH1 and two mutant ACVR2 alleles plus one WT ACVR2 allele , express ∼20 % WT ACVR2 mRNA [22] , suggesting a slow but steady mutation of the transferred ACVR2 allele in hMLH1 deficiency . Determining mutation rates of actual human coding genes in human MMR deficiency has not been previously performed , although model systems using noncoding sequences with human cell and yeast MMR systems have been utilized [24]–[27] . To test the hypothesis that TGFBR2 and ACVR2 frameshift mutations are dependent on the human MMR background , we constructed EGFP plasmids in which a −1 bp frameshift mutation at coding microsatellites of TGFBR2 exon 3 and ACVR2 exon 10 was detected by EGFP expression in human colon cancer cells with MMR deficiency . With this new cell model , we were able to calculate a human gene mutation rate in each human MMR-deficient background , and could directly compare the mutation rate between TGFBR2 and ACVR2 . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** EGFP expression of stably transfected HCT116 cell lines ( hMLH1−/− ) containing exon 3 of TGFBR2 sequences . ( A ) MR TGFBR2 IF cells , a postive control , showed 99 % EGFP expression . ( B ) MR TGFBR2 OF cells , a negative control , showed no visible fluorescence . ( C ) TGFBR2 OF cells showed 1.22 % net fluorescence . Photomicrographs of stable HCT116 cell lines are representative of the other stable cell lines containing TGFBR2 exon 3 or ACVR2 exon 10 sequences . Photomicrographs in top panels were taken with a fluorescence microscope ( Zeiss , Germany ) and photomicrographs in bottom panels were taken with a light microscope of the identical area under 40× magnification . TGFBR2 exon 3 and ACVR2 exon 10 coding microsatellite mutations are dependent on the MMR background To determine mutation frequencies of the TGFBR2 and ACVR2 coding microsatellites in cells with different MMR backgrounds ( Table S1 ) , nonfluorescent cells containing either MR TGFBR2 OF , TGFBR2 OF , MR ACVR2 OF or ACVR2 OF were sorted and exponentially grown for 7 to 35 days . At specific time points ( day 7 , 14 , 21 , 28 , and/or 35 ) three cultures of each cell line were analyzed in parallel for EGFP expression by using flow cytometry to detect −1 bp frameshift mutations . Three different populations were identified according to their EGFP fluorescence intensity ( Fig . 3 ) . The population with no fluorescence was named M0 , the population with low fluorescence M1 , and the population with high fluorescence M2. EGFP histograms of MR TGFBR2 OF and TGFBR2 OF cells in different MMR backgrounds at day 21 are shown in Fig . 3E , in which hMLH1−/ − TGFBR2 OF cells showed 2 distinct EGFP cell populations , M1 and M2. M2 cells from hMLH1−/ − TGFBR2 OF showed brighter EGFP expression compared to M1 cells ( Fig . S1 ) . Mutation analysis by flow cytometry . Nonfluorescent cells were sorted and cells were exponentially grown for 7 to 35 days . At specific time points , cells were harvested , and 200,000 cells were analyzed for EGFP expression ( identifying a −1 bp mutation ) by flow cytometry . For example , with hMLH1−/ − ACVR2 OF cells , region R1 , R3 , and R2 were set according to ( A ) cell size , ( B ) live cells , and ( C ) fluorescence . Gated R1 and R3 ( live cells ) , and R2 were analyzed on an EGFP histogram ( D) and two distinct EGFP populations were plotted . The population displaying no fluorescence was designated M0 , the population with dim EGFP expression was designated M1 , and the population with bright EGFP expression was designated M2. ( E ) EGFP histograms of MR TGFBR2 OF and TGFBR2 OF cells in different MMR deficient backgrounds at day 21 were shown as representatives of mutation analysis . Scaling of cell counts in each EGFP histogram is different for each MMR background . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** Frameshift mutation at coding microsatellites of TGFBR2 exon 3 and ACVR2 exon 10 in different human MMR deficient backgrounds . Cells from the M1 and/or M2 populations of hMLH1−/ − TGFBR2 OF or ACVR2 OF cells , hMSH6−/ − TGFBR2 OF or ACVR2 OF cells , and hMSH3−/ − TGFBR2 OF cells were sorted and cultured . DNA from each cell line was amplified by PCR , sub-cloned and all single cell clones were individually sequenced to assess for frameshift mutation of the coding microsatellites of TGFBR2 exon 3 and ACVR2 exon 10 . Sequence analysis of DNA clones from hMLH1 and hMSH6 deficiencies revealed mostly 1 bp deletion at microsatellites ( A9 for TGFBR2 or A7 for ACVR2 ) , shifting the EGFP gene into the reading frame and leading to its expression ( A ) . Note that M2 clones from hMLH1−/ − TGFBR2 OF cells revealed 100 % A9/T9 microsatellite sequences , termed a “full mutant ? whereas M1 clones revealed a mixture of A10/T10 and A9/T9 microsatellite sequences , which suggests the presence of an A10/T9 heteroduplex , termed an “intermediate mutant ? ( B ) . To determine the nature of the mutations observed in the M1 population , we analyzed pooled cells as well as single cell clones . In pooled samples , unlike fully mutant sequences observed in the M2 populations , M1 population sequences often revealed two overlapping sequences , suggestive of heteroduplexes ( A9/T10 in TGFBR2 and A7/T8 in ACVR2 ) ( Fig . 5B ) . Single cell clones revealed the presence of both WT and −1 bp frameshift mutants ( Fig . 5B) , consistent with heteroduplexes that weakly drive EGFP expression . Overall , our data indicate that hMLH1 deficiency has the highest susceptibility for frameshift mutation at the coding microsatellites of TGFBR2 exon 3 and ACVR2 exon 10 of the three different MMR deficiencies ( hMLH1−/− , hMSH6−/ − and hMSH3−/− ) . In addition , the coding microsatellite of TGFBR2 exon 3 has a higher susceptibility to a 1 bp frameshift mutation than that of ACVR2 exon 10 in hMLH1 , hMSH6 , ( and hMSH3 ) deficiencies . The frameshift mutation rates at the coding microsatellites of TGFBR2 exon 3 and ACVR2 exon 10 are dependent on the MMR background The M2 population ( full mutants ) was used to calculate the mutation rates at microsatellites of TGFBR2 exon 3 and ACVR2 exon 10 by the “method of the mean ? [28 ] ( Table 1 ) . A single mutation rate was calculated by taking a weighted average of the mutation rates at the different time points , the weights of which were chosen to minimize the variance of the estimate as previously described [25] . As predicted , the mutation rate at the microsatellite of TGFBR2 in the hMLH1−/ − background was highest : 5.91×10−4±1.26×10−4 . Mutation at the A10 microsatellite of TGFBR2 is ∼3 times more frequent than mutation at the A8 microsatellite of ACVR2 in hMLH1 deficiency ( P<0.01 ) . In addition , mutation at the microsatellite of TGFBR2 is ∼4 times higher than mutation at the microsatellite of ACVR2 in hMSH6 deficiency . Furthermore , mutations at the microsatellites of TGFBR2 and ACVR2 are ∼11–15 times higher in hMLH1 deficiency than in hMSH6 deficiency ( P<0.01 ) . Mutation rates from hMSH3−/ − and MMR-proficient cell lines were not calculated due to a lack of net fluorescent M2 populations . These data confirm that hMLH1 deficiency allows a higher susceptibility for mutation at the coding microsatellites of TGFBR2 exon 3 and ACVR2 exon 10 than hMSH6 and hMSH3 deficiencies , and that TGFBR2 exon 3 has a higher susceptibility to mutation at its coding microsatellite over ACVR2 exon 10 in both hMLH1 and hMSH6 deficiencies . ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** ** IGNORE LINE ** As we hypothesized , the mutational frequencies and rates of TGFBR2 exon 3 and ACVR2 exon 10 microsatellites are dependent on the MMR deficient background with hMLH1−/−>hMSH6−/−>hMSH3−/− . As TGFBR2 and ACVR2 mutations may drive the pathogenesis of colorectal cancers , our human data is consistent with the virulence of tumor formation in Lynch syndrome . Patients with germline mutation in hMLH1 may present with cancer at younger ages compared to those with a hMSH6 germline mutation [29] . Data on mutation rates for TGFBR2 exon 3 and ACVR2 exon 10 ( Table 1 ) showed similar results . hMLH1−/ − TGFBR2 showed the highest mutation rate at its coding microsatellite sequence ( 5.91×10−4 ) . This mutation rate is similar to that calculated for noncoding ( CA)13 microsatellites in hMLH1−/ − cells [25] , suggesting that this coding A10 and the noncoding ( CA)13 microsatellites are equally vulnerable to hMLH1 deficiency . The mutation rate for TGFBR2 was 3 fold higher than that for ACVR2 in both hMLH1 ( 5.91×10−4 ) and hMSH6 ( 0.54×10−4 ) deficiencies . The rapid rate for TGFBR2 mutation with MMR deficiency might be due partly to TGFBR2 's longer polyadenine tract compared to ACVR2 , as longer microsatellite tracts mutate more frequently in MMR deficiency [7] . In the case of ACVR2 exon 10 , even though the mutation rate is slower than TGFBR2 exon 3 , ultimately fully mutant clones accumulate . The rapid rate for TGFBR2 exon 3 mutation is probably most reflective in the M1 population , as there is a rapid heteroduplex formation particularly in hMLH1 deficiency , followed by full mutation . In ACVR2 exon 10 , heteroduplex formation is relatively slower . With both TGFBR2 and ACVR2 constructs , heteroduplex formation and subsequent full mutation are slower in the hMSH6−/ − background compared to hMLH1−/ − background . It has been shown that MSH6 and MSH3 are redundant in regard to frameshift mutagenesis in a yeast model [30] , which supports our finding that hMSH6 and hMSH3 defects have much lower frameshift mutation rates than the hMLH1 defect that completely eliminates MMR. Lower frameshift mutation rate in hMSH6 deficiency would logically predict a lower penetrance in Lynch syndrome for which no germline hMSH3 mutation has been reported . In summary , we established and utilized a cell model in which actual human coding microsatellite sequences of TGFBR2 exon 3 and ACVR2 exon 10 were evaluated in real time for frameshift mutation in different human MMR backgrounds . hMLH1 deficiency confers a significantly higher mutation rate at the coding microsatellites of TGFBR2 and ACVR2 compared to hMSH6 and hMSH3 deficiencies . In addition , TGFBR2 mutates at a higher rate than ACVR2 in both hMLH1 and hMSH6 deficiencies . These bona-fide human genes targeted for mutation in MMR deficiency mutate at differing rates , and lose expression of their encoded proteins in colonic neoplastic cells . Understanding these targeted genes in MMR deficiency has implications in understanding the pathogenesis of MSI colorectal tumors . Pedigree for Family # 3 ( CRC : Colorectal cancer ; ESC : Oesophageal cancer ; LC : Lung cancer ) . Of the 17 CRC patients with the Lys618Ala variant , two had MSI ( 11.8 % ) , one in the familial CRC group ( 1/8 ) and one in the sporadic CRC group ( 1/9 ) . The MSI-positive patient from the familial CRC group showed loss of immunohistochemical expression of MLH1 . This is the index subject ( II-3 ) for the third family ( Figure 4 ) and no hypermethylation of MLH1 gene promoter ; no BRAF p.Val600Glu mutation were detected in this case . As most disease pedigrees are small , it is difficult to obtain a sufficient number of samples from affected and informative unaffected individuals . Moreover , LS deleterious variants are not completely penetrant . For these reasons , it is rarely possible to categorize variants as deleterious based on segregation alone . The co-occurrence of another known deleterious variant reduces the likelihood that an UV is truly deleterious , especially when both variants are located in trans [3] . To our knowledge , co-occurrence of a deleterious variant in one of the LS genes with the p.Lys618Ala variant has been observed in only two families . Liu et al [14] described an index subject from a LS family with two heterozygous variants ( c.546-2A>G and c.1852_1853AA>GC ) ; only the former segregated with LS in the family . Similarly , Steinke et al [15] , described the co-occurrence of the p.Lys618Ala ( c.1852_1853AA>GC ) variant with the MSH6 p.Arg1068X ( c.3202C>T ) deleterious variant . Herein , we describe the coexistence of the p.Lys618Ala variant with deleterious variants in another two unrelated LS families . In one family , the allele distribution of the pathogenic and unclassified variant was in trans , in the other family the pathogenic variant was detected in the MSH6 gene and only the deleterious variant co-segregated with the disease in both families . This evidence indicates that the p.Lys618Ala variant is not deleterious . The molecular hallmark of LS tumours is an MSI phenotype , a functional consequence of MMR deficiency . It is expected that the putative germ-line mutation responsible for LS would confer the MSI phenotype . We tested the MSI status of 17 tumours from p.Lys618Ala carriers and detected only two cases of MSI ( 11.8 % ) . Taking into consideration the bias caused by the over-representation of Bethesda Criteria-positive tumours in this subset of cases ( 8/17 ) , the MSI frequency was not significantly different from that in the unselected CRC group [7] . This is further proof that the presence of this variant is irrelevant to the functional inactivation of MLH1 in CRC patients . Nonetheless , we cannot exclude the possibility that this variant may result in a small increase in susceptibility to CRC or adenomas , as was suggested by Fearnhead et al [16] . Further studies with appropriate sample sizes are required to address the low penetrance effect of this variant in CRC. Finally , we hypothesize that the clinical significance of a genetic variant may differ according to genetic background . Gene functionality may be the net result of the effects of allelic structures and their interactions with environmental factors . It is possible that low-penetrance variants behave differently in different populations , making it difficult to make predictions in terms of conferred risk . Conclusions Taken together , the results of this study and others indicate that the c.1852_1853AA>GC variant should be considered a neutral variant for LS. These findings have considerable relevance for the clinical management of CRC probands and their relatives . 
